---
navTitle: Consensus Layer
title: Consensus Layer Considerations
---

HARP is designed so that it can work with different implementations of 
Consensus Layer, also known as Distributed Control Systems (DCS).

Currently the following DCS implementations are supported:

 - etcd
 - BDR

This section provides information specific to HARP's interaction with the 
supported DCS implementations.

## BDR Driver Compatibility

The `bdr` native consensus layer is available from BDR versions 
[3.6.21](/bdr/latest/release-notes/#bdr-3621) 
and [3.7.3](/bdr/latest/release-notes/#bdr-373) respectively.

Note that for the purpose of maintaining a voting Quorum, BDR Logical Standby 
nodes do not participate in consensus communications within a BDR cluster. Do
not count these in the total node list to fulfill DCS Quorum requirements.

## Maintaining Quorum

Clusters of any architecture require at least n/2 + 1 nodes to maintain 
Consensus via a voting Quorum. Thus a 3-node cluster may tolerate the outage of 
a single node, a 5-node cluster can tolerate a 2-node outage, and so on. If 
consensus is ever lost, HARP will become inoperable because the DCS prevents it 
from deterministically identifying which node is the Lead Master within a 
particular Location.

As a result, whichever DCS is chosen, more than half of the nodes must always 
be available _cluster-wide_. This can become a non-trivial element when 
distributing DCS nodes among two or more Data Centers. A Network Partition will 
prevent Quorum in any Location that cannot maintain a voting majority, and thus 
HARP will cease operations.

Thus an odd-number of nodes (with a minimum of 3) is crucial when building the 
Consensus Layer itself. An ideal case distributes nodes across a minimum of 
three independent locations to prevent a single Network Partition from 
disrupting Consensus.

One example configuration is to designate two DCS nodes in two Data Centers 
coinciding with the primary BDR nodes, and a fifth DCS node (such as a BDR 
Witness) elsewhere. Using such a design, a network partition between the two 
BDR Data Centers would not disrupt Consensus thanks to the independently
located node.

### Multi-Consensus Variant

HARP itself assumes one Lead Master per configured Location. Normally each 
Location is specified within HARP using the `location` configuration setting. 
By creating a separate DCS cluster per Location, it becomes possible to emulate
this behavior independently of HARP.

To accomplish this, HARP should be configured in `config.yml` to use a different
DCS connection target per desired Location.

HARP nodes in DC-A would use something like this:

```yaml
location: dca
dcs:
  driver: etcd
  endpoints:
    - dcs-a1:2379
    - dcs-a2:2379
    - dcs-a3:2379
```

While DC-B would use different hostnames corresponding to nodes in its 
canonical Location:

```yaml
location: dcb
dcs:
  driver: etcd
  endpoints:
    - dcs-a1:2379
    - dcs-a2:2379
    - dcs-a3:2379
```

There is no DCS communication between different Data Centers in this design, 
and thus a Network Partition between them will not impact HARP operation. A 
consequence of this is that HARP is completely unaware of nodes in the other 
Location, and each Location operates essentially as a separate HARP cluster.

This is not possible when using BDR as the DCS, as BDR maintains a Consensus 
Layer across all participant nodes. 

A possible drawback to this approach is that `harpctl` is unable to interact 
with nodes outside of the current Location. It will be impossible to obtain 
node information, get or set the Lead Master, or any other operation that 
targets the other Location. Essentially this organization renders the 
`--location` parameter to `harpctl` unusable.

### TPAexec and Consensus

The above considerations are integrated into TPAexec as well. When deploying a
cluster using etcd, it will automatically construct a separate DCS cluster per
Location to facilitate High Availability in favor of strict Consistency.

Thus this configuration example:

```yaml
cluster_vars:
  failover_manager: harp
  harp_consensus_protocol: etcd

locations:
  - Name: first
  - Name: second
```

Would group any DCS nodes assigned to the `first` location together, and the 
`second` location would be a separate cluster. To override this behavior, 
configure the `harp_location` implicitly to force a particular grouping.

Thus this example would return all etcd nodes into a single cohesive DCS layer:

```yaml
cluster_vars:
  failover_manager: harp
  harp_consensus_protocol: etcd

locations:
  - Name: first
  - Name: second
  - Name: all_dcs

instance_defaults:
  vars:
    harp_location: all_dcs
```

The `harp_location` override may also be necessary to favor specific node 
groupings when using cloud providers such as Amazon which favor Availability
Zones within Regions in favor of traditional Data Centers.

