product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/autopartition.mdx, before:

---
title: AutoPartition in PGD
navTitle: AutoPartition
description: How to use autopartitioning in PGD to split tables into several partitions.
redirects:
  - /pgd/latest/reference/autopartition/ #generated for DOCS-3034
---

PGD AutoPartition allows you to split tables into several partitions. It lets
tables grow easily to large sizes using automatic partitioning management. This
capability uses features of PGD, such as low-conflict locking of creating and
dropping partitions.

You can create new partitions regularly and then drop them when the
data retention period expires.

You perform PGD management primarily by using functions that can be called by SQL.
All functions in PGD are exposed in the `bdr` schema. Unless you put it into
your search_path, you need to schema qualify the name of each function.

## Auto creation of partitions

PGD AutoPartition uses the [`bdr.autopartition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition)
function to create or alter the definition of automatic range partitioning for a table. If
no definition exists, it's created. Otherwise, later executions will alter the
definition.

PGD AutoPartition in PGD 5.5 and later leverages underlying Postgres features that allow a
partition to be attached or detached/dropped without locking the rest of the
table. Versions of PGD earlier than 5.5 don't support this feature and lock the tables.

An error is raised if the table isn't RANGE partitioned or a multi-column
partition key is used.

By default, AutoPartition manages partitions locally. Managing partitions
locally is useful when the partitioned table isn't a replicated table. In that
case, you might not need or want to have all partitions on all nodes. For
example, the built-in [`bdr.conflict_history`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/catalogs-visible#bdrconflict_history)
table isn't a replicated table. It's managed by AutoPartition locally. Each node
creates partitions for this table locally and drops them once they're old
enough.

Also consider:

- Activities are performed only when the entry is marked `enabled = on`.

- We recommend that you don't manually create or drop partitions for tables
managed by AutoPartition. Doing so can make the AutoPartition metadata
inconsistent and might cause it to fail.

## AutoPartition examples

Daily partitions, keep data for one month:

```sql
CREATE TABLE measurement (
logdate date not null,
peaktemp int,
unitsales int
) PARTITION BY RANGE (logdate);

bdr.autopartition('measurement', '1 day', data_retention_period := '30 days');
```

Create five advance partitions when there are only two more partitions
remaining. Each partition can hold 1 billion orders.

```sql
bdr.autopartition('Orders', '1000000000',
		partition_initial_lowerbound := '0',
		minimum_advance_partitions := 2,
		maximum_advance_partitions := 5
     );
```


## RANGE-partitioned tables

A new partition is added for every `partition_increment` range of values. 
Lower and upper bound are `partition_increment` apart. For tables with a partition
key of type `timestamp` or `date`, the `partition_increment` must be a valid
constant of type `interval`. For example, specifying `1 Day` causes a new
partition to be added each day, with partition bounds that are one day apart.

If the partition column is connected to a `snowflakeid`, `timeshard`, or
`ksuuid` sequence, you must specify the `partition_increment` as type
`interval`. Otherwise, if the partition key is integer or numeric, then the
`partition_increment` must be a valid constant of the same datatype. For
example, specifying `1000000` causes new partitions to be added every 1 million
values.

If the table has no existing partition, then the specified
`partition_initial_lowerbound` is used as the lower bound for the first
partition. If you don't specify `partition_initial_lowerbound`, then the system
tries to derive its value from the partition column type and the specified
`partition_increment`. For example, if `partition_increment` is specified as `1
Day`, then `partition_initial_lowerbound` is set to CURRENT DATE. If
`partition_increment` is specified as `1 Hour`, then
`partition_initial_lowerbound` is set to the current hour of the current date.
The bounds for the subsequent partitions are set using the `partition_increment`
value.

The system always tries to have a certain minimum number of advance partitions.
To decide whether to create new partitions, it uses the specified
`partition_autocreate_expression`. This can be an expression that can be
evaluated by SQL that's evaluated every time a check is performed. For
example, for a partitioned table on column type `date`, suppose
`partition_autocreate_expression` is specified as
`DATE_TRUNC('day',CURRENT_DATE)`, `partition_increment` is specified as `1 Day`,
and `minimum_advance_partitions` is specified as `2`. New partitions are then
created until the upper bound of the last partition is less than
`DATE_TRUNC('day', CURRENT_DATE) + '2 Days'::interval`.

The expression is evaluated each time the system checks for new partitions.

For a partitioned table on column type `integer`, you can specify the
`partition_autocreate_expression` as `SELECT max(partcol) FROM
schema.partitioned_table`. The system then regularly checks if the maximum value
of the partitioned column is within the distance of `minimum_advance_partitions * partition_increment`
of the last partition's upper bound. Create an index on
the `partcol` so that the query runs efficiently. If you don't specify the
`partition_autocreate_expression` for a partition table on column type
`integer`, `smallint`, or `bigint`, then the system sets it to `max(partcol)`.

If the `data_retention_period` is set, partitions are dropped after this period.
To minimize locking, partitions are dropped at the same time as new partitions are added.
If you don't set this value, you must drop the partitions manually.

The `data_retention_period` parameter is supported only for timestamp-based (and
related) partitions. The period is calculated by considering the upper
bound of the partition. The partition is dropped if the given period expires, relative to the
upper bound.

## Stopping automatic creation of partitions

Use
[`bdr.drop_autopartition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrdrop_autopartition)
to drop the autopartitioning rule for the given relation. All pending work items
for the relation are deleted, and no new work items are created.

## Waiting for partition creation

Partition creation is an asynchronous process. AutoPartition provides a set of
functions to wait for the partition to be created, locally or on all nodes.

Use
[`bdr.autopartition_wait_for_partitions()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_wait_for_partitions)
to wait for the creation of partitions on the local node. The function takes the
partitioned table name and a partition key column value and waits until the
partition that holds that value is created.

The function waits only for the partitions to be created locally. It doesn't
guarantee that the partitions also exist on the remote nodes.

To wait for the partition to be created on all PGD nodes, use the
[`bdr.autopartition_wait_for_partitions_on_all_nodes()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_wait_for_partitions_on_all_nodes)
function. This function internally checks local as well as all remote nodes and
waits until the partition is created everywhere.

## Finding a partition

Use the
[`bdr.autopartition_find_partition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_find_partition)
function to find the partition for the given partition key value. If a partition
to hold that value doesn't exist, then the function returns NULL. Otherwise it returns the Oid
of the partition.

## Enabling or disabling autopartitioning

Use
[`bdr.autopartition_enable()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_enable)
to enable autopartitioning on the given table. If autopartitioning is already
enabled, then no action occurs. Similarly, use
[`bdr.autopartition_disable()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_disable)
to disable autopartitioning on the given table.

## Dropping or detaching a partition

By default, partitions of tables managed by `autopartition()` are detached and dropped once the `data_retention_period` expires. The `drop_after_retention_period` parameter can control this behavior so you can choose to keep those partitions. When set to
`false`, the partitions are only detached from the parent table, but not dropped. This allows users to potentially re-attach the partition to some other table or process them before finally dropping. The default value of the parameter is `true` so in any existing or new autopartitioned tables, the partitions are dropped after `data_retention_period` expires.
    
To handle partitions that are detached but not dropped, manually re-attach those partitions to some other table or drop them.

Commit message:

Remove Essential-how-to and Expanded-how-to sections

product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/autopartition.mdx, after:

---
title: AutoPartition in PGD
navTitle: AutoPartition
description: How to use autopartitioning in PGD to split tables into several partitions.
redirects:
  - /pgd/latest/reference/autopartition/ #generated for DOCS-3034
  - /pgd/latest/essential-how-to/autopartition/
---

PGD AutoPartition allows you to split tables into several partitions, other tables, and creating and dropping partitions as needed. Autopartitioning is useful for managing large tables that grow over time as it allows you to separate the data into manageable chunks. You can create new partitions regularly and then drop them when the data retention period expires.

This capability uses features of PGD, such as low-conflict locking of creating and dropping partitions.

You perform PGD management primarily by using functions that can be called by SQL.
All functions in PGD are exposed in the `bdr` schema. Unless you put it into
your search_path, you need to schema qualify the name of each function.

## Auto creation of partitions

PGD AutoPartition uses the [`bdr.autopartition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition)
function to create or alter the definition of automatic range partitioning for a table. If
no definition exists, it's created. Otherwise, later executions will alter the
definition.

PGD AutoPartition in PGD 5.5 and later leverages underlying Postgres features that allow a
partition to be attached or detached/dropped without locking the rest of the
table. Versions of PGD earlier than 5.5 don't support this feature and lock the tables.

An error is raised if the table isn't RANGE partitioned or a multi-column
partition key is used.

By default, AutoPartition manages partitions locally. Managing partitions
locally is useful when the partitioned table isn't a replicated table. In that
case, you might not need or want to have all partitions on all nodes. For
example, the built-in [`bdr.conflict_history`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/catalogs-visible#bdrconflict_history)
table isn't a replicated table. It's managed by AutoPartition locally. Each node
creates partitions for this table locally and drops them once they're old
enough.

Also consider:

- Activities are performed only when the entry is marked `enabled = on`.

- We recommend that you don't manually create or drop partitions for tables
managed by AutoPartition. Doing so can make the AutoPartition metadata
inconsistent and might cause it to fail.

## AutoPartition examples

Daily partitions, keep data for one month:

```sql
CREATE TABLE measurement (
logdate date not null,
peaktemp int,
unitsales int
) PARTITION BY RANGE (logdate);

bdr.autopartition('measurement', '1 day', data_retention_period := '30 days');
```

Create five advance partitions when there are only two more partitions
remaining. Each partition can hold 1 billion orders.

```sql
bdr.autopartition('Orders', '1000000000',
		partition_initial_lowerbound := '0',
		minimum_advance_partitions := 2,
		maximum_advance_partitions := 5
     );
```


## RANGE-partitioned tables

PGD autopartitioning supports range partitioning using the `RANGE` keyword. Range partitioning allows you to partition a table based on the ranges of values in a column. For example, you can partition a table by date, where each partition contains data for a specific date range. This is useful for managing large tables that grow over time, as it allows you to separate the data into manageable chunks.

A new partition is added for every `partition_increment` range of values. 
Lower and upper bound are `partition_increment` apart. For tables with a partition
key of type `timestamp` or `date`, the `partition_increment` must be a valid
constant of type `interval`. For example, specifying `1 Day` causes a new
partition to be added each day, with partition bounds that are one day apart.

If the partition column is connected to a `snowflakeid`, `timeshard`, or
`ksuuid` sequence, you must specify the `partition_increment` as type
`interval`. Otherwise, if the partition key is integer or numeric, then the
`partition_increment` must be a valid constant of the same datatype. For
example, specifying `1000000` causes new partitions to be added every 1 million
values.

If the table has no existing partition, then the specified
`partition_initial_lowerbound` is used as the lower bound for the first
partition. If you don't specify `partition_initial_lowerbound`, then the system
tries to derive its value from the partition column type and the specified
`partition_increment`. For example, if `partition_increment` is specified as `1
Day`, then `partition_initial_lowerbound` is set to CURRENT DATE. If
`partition_increment` is specified as `1 Hour`, then
`partition_initial_lowerbound` is set to the current hour of the current date.
The bounds for the subsequent partitions are set using the `partition_increment`
value.

The system always tries to have a certain minimum number of advance partitions.
To decide whether to create new partitions, it uses the specified
`partition_autocreate_expression`. This can be an expression that can be
evaluated by SQL that's evaluated every time a check is performed. For
example, for a partitioned table on column type `date`, suppose
`partition_autocreate_expression` is specified as
`DATE_TRUNC('day',CURRENT_DATE)`, `partition_increment` is specified as `1 Day`,
and `minimum_advance_partitions` is specified as `2`. New partitions are then
created until the upper bound of the last partition is less than
`DATE_TRUNC('day', CURRENT_DATE) + '2 Days'::interval`.

The expression is evaluated each time the system checks for new partitions.

For a partitioned table on column type `integer`, you can specify the
`partition_autocreate_expression` as `SELECT max(partcol) FROM
schema.partitioned_table`. The system then regularly checks if the maximum value
of the partitioned column is within the distance of `minimum_advance_partitions * partition_increment`
of the last partition's upper bound. Create an index on
the `partcol` so that the query runs efficiently. If you don't specify the
`partition_autocreate_expression` for a partition table on column type
`integer`, `smallint`, or `bigint`, then the system sets it to `max(partcol)`.

If the `data_retention_period` is set, partitions are dropped after this period.
To minimize locking, partitions are dropped at the same time as new partitions are added.
If you don't set this value, you must drop the partitions manually.

The `data_retention_period` parameter is supported only for timestamp-based (and
related) partitions. The period is calculated by considering the upper
bound of the partition. The partition is dropped if the given period expires, relative to the
upper bound.

## Stopping automatic creation of partitions

Use
[`bdr.drop_autopartition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrdrop_autopartition)
to drop the autopartitioning rule for the given relation. All pending work items
for the relation are deleted, and no new work items are created.

## Waiting for partition creation

Partition creation is an asynchronous process. AutoPartition provides a set of
functions to wait for the partition to be created, locally or on all nodes.

Use
[`bdr.autopartition_wait_for_partitions()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_wait_for_partitions)
to wait for the creation of partitions on the local node. The function takes the
partitioned table name and a partition key column value and waits until the
partition that holds that value is created.

The function waits only for the partitions to be created locally. It doesn't
guarantee that the partitions also exist on the remote nodes.

To wait for the partition to be created on all PGD nodes, use the
[`bdr.autopartition_wait_for_partitions_on_all_nodes()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_wait_for_partitions_on_all_nodes)
function. This function internally checks local as well as all remote nodes and
waits until the partition is created everywhere.

## Finding a partition

Use the
[`bdr.autopartition_find_partition()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_find_partition)
function to find the partition for the given partition key value. If a partition
to hold that value doesn't exist, then the function returns NULL. Otherwise it returns the Oid
of the partition.

## Enabling or disabling autopartitioning

Use
[`bdr.autopartition_enable()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_enable)
to enable autopartitioning on the given table. If autopartitioning is already
enabled, then no action occurs. Similarly, use
[`bdr.autopartition_disable()`](/pgd/latest/reference/tables-views-functions/autopartition#bdrautopartition_disable)
to disable autopartitioning on the given table.

## Dropping or detaching a partition

By default, partitions of tables managed by `autopartition()` are detached and dropped once the `data_retention_period` expires. The `drop_after_retention_period` parameter can control this behavior so you can choose to keep those partitions. When set to
`false`, the partitions are only detached from the parent table, but not dropped. This allows users to potentially re-attach the partition to some other table or process them before finally dropping. The default value of the parameter is `true` so in any existing or new autopartitioned tables, the partitions are dropped after `data_retention_period` expires.
    
To handle partitions that are detached but not dropped, manually re-attach those partitions to some other table or drop them.
