product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/deployments.mdx, before:

---
title: "Choosing your deployment method"
navTitle: Choosing your deployment method
description: Learn about the different methods for deploying EDB Postgres Distributed.

indexCards: simple
redirects:
- /pgd/latest/deployments
---

You can deploy and install EDB Postgres Distributed products using the following methods:

-   [Manual deployment and administration](installing/) provides granular control by allowing you to manually provision, install, and configure EDB Postgres Distributed directly on your chosen infrastructure. This method involves manually setting up the underlying Postgres engine, and configuring the node group settings. While this approach offers maximum flexibility for bespoke environments, it requires a deep understanding of PGD's configuration parameters and life-cycle management.

-   [Trusted Postgres Architect](/tpa/latest) (TPA) is an orchestration tool that uses Ansible to build Postgres clusters using a set of reference architectures that document how to set up and operate Postgres in various scenarios. TPA represents the best practices followed by EDB, and its recommendations apply to quick testbed setups just as they do to production environments. TPA's flexibility allows deployments to virtual machines, AWS cloud instances, or Linux host hardware.

-   EDB Postgres AI Cloud Service is a fully managed database-as-a-service with built-in Oracle compatibility that runs in your cloud account or Cloud Service's cloud account where it's operated by EDB's Postgres experts. EDB Postgres AI Cloud Service makes it easy to set up, manage, and scale your databases. The addition of distributed high-availability support powered by EDB Postgres Distributed (PGD) enables single- and multi-region Always-on clusters. See [Distributed high availability](/edb-postgres-ai/cloud-service/references/supported_cluster_types/distributed_highavailability/) in the [Cloud Service documentation](/edb-postgres-ai/cloud-service/) for more information.

-   [EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes](/postgres_distributed_for_kubernetes/latest/) is a Kubernetes operator designed, developed, and supported by EDB. It covers the full lifecycle of highly available Postgres database clusters with a multi-master architecture, using PGD replication. It's based on the open source CloudNativePG operator and provides additional value, such as compatibility with Oracle using EDB Postgres Advanced Server, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) using EDB Postgres Extended or Advanced Server, and additional supported platforms including IBM Power and OpenShift.

|                                            |         <center>Manual</center>      |           <center>TPA</center>         | <center>EDB Postgres AI<br/>Cloud Service</center> |      <center>Kubernetes</center>     |
| ------------------------------------------ | :----------------------------------: |:----------------------------------: | :------------------------------------------------: | :----------------------------------: |
| Single region                              | needs input |<span style="color: green;">✓</span> |        <span style="color: green;">✓</span>        | <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |
| Active-Active support                      |                         |              2+ regions              |                      2 regions                     |               2 regions              |
| Write/Read routing                         |                      |             Local or global           |                        Local                       |                 Local                |
| Automated failover                         |                       |              AZ or Region             |                         AZ                         |                  AZ                  |
| Major version upgrades                     |  |  <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |                          -                         |                   -                  |
| Subscriber-only nodes<br/> (read replicas) | |  <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |                          -                         |                   -                  |
| Logical standby nodes                      |  | <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |                          -                         |                   -                  |
| PgBouncer                                  |  |  <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |                          -                         |                   -                  |
| Selective data replication                 |  | <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |        <span style="color: green;">✓</span>        | <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |
| Maintenance windows per region             |  |  <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |        <span style="color: green;">✓</span>        | <span style="color: green;">✓</span> |
| Target availability                        |                       |              99.999% SLO             |     99.99 SLA (single)<br/>99.995% SLA (multi)     |              99.999% SLO             |

Commit message:

Removed Cloud service, added Hybrid Manager

product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/deployments.mdx, after:

---
title: "Choosing your deployment method"
navTitle: Choosing your deployment method
description: Learn about the different methods for deploying EDB Postgres Distributed.

indexCards: simple
redirects:
- /pgd/latest/deployments
---

You can deploy and install EDB Postgres Distributed (PGD) products using the following methods:

-   [Manual deployment and administration](installing/) provides granular control by allowing you to manually provision, install, and configure PGD directly on your chosen infrastructure. This method involves manually setting up the underlying Postgres engine, and configuring the node group settings. While this approach offers maximum flexibility for bespoke environments, it requires a deep understanding of PGD's configuration parameters and life-cycle management.

-   [Trusted Postgres Architect](/tpa/latest) (TPA) is an orchestration tool that uses Ansible to build Postgres clusters using a set of reference architectures that document how to set up and operate Postgres in various scenarios. TPA represents the best practices followed by EDB, and its recommendations apply to quick testbed setups just as they do to production environments. TPA's flexibility allows deployments to virtual machines, AWS cloud instances, or Linux host hardware.

-   [EDB Postgres Distributed for Kubernetes](/postgres_distributed_for_kubernetes/latest/) is a Kubernetes operator designed, developed, and supported by EDB. It covers the full lifecycle of highly available Postgres database clusters with a multi-master architecture, using PGD replication. It's based on the open source CloudNativePG operator and provides additional value, such as compatibility with Oracle using EDB Postgres Advanced Server, Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) using EDB Postgres Extended or Advanced Server, and additional supported platforms including IBM Power and OpenShift.

-   [Hybrid Manager](/edb-postgres-ai/latest/hybrid-manager/) is a management component designed to orchestrate and monitor PGD clusters across hybrid and multi-cloud environments. It simplifies the complexity of managing PGD nodes that span different infrastructure providers, providing a unified interface for lifecycle operations, health monitoring, and configuration management. By bridging the gap between on-premises data centers and public cloud deployments, Hybrid Manager ensures consistent operational standards and high availability for geographically dispersed clusters.
