product_docs/docs/pgaa/1.6/installing.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing Analytics Accelerator
navTitle: Installing
description: Step-by-step instructions to install the PGAA extension.
---

To use the Postgres Analytics Accelerator (PGAA), you must install the extension on your PostgreSQL instance and enable the background worker for the query engine. See [Compatibility](overview/compatibility) for a full list of supported platforms.

## Downloading and installing the package

Download the package from the EDB repository:

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
export EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN=<your-token>
curl -1sSLf "https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN/standard/setup.deb.sh" | sudo -E bash
sudo apt-get install -y <postgresql-distribution>-pgaa
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
export EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN=<your-token>
curl -1sSLf "https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN/standard/setup.rpm.sh" | sudo -E bash
sudo dnf install -y <postgresql-distribution>-pgaa
```

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

Where `<postgresql-distribution>` specifies your Postgres distribution (`edb-postgresextended`, `edb-as`, or `postgres`), and version.


## Enabling the extension 

To initialize PGAA, you must update your `postgresql.conf` file. Adding `pgaa` to `shared_preload_libraries` allows Postgres to manage the life cycle of the Seafowl query engine as a background worker.

1. Edit `postgresql.conf`:

    ```ini
    shared_preload_libraries = 'pgaa'
    pgaa.autostart_seafowl = on
    ```

1. Restart your PostgreSQL service to load the new library. Once restarted, log in to your Postgres instance and create the PGAA extension:

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgaa CASCADE;
    ```

    Using `CASCADE` ensures that required dependencies, such as the Postgres File System (`PGFS`), are automatically installed.


## Verifying the installation

Confirm that the extension is active using the `\dx` meta-command or by calling the version function:

```sql
SELECT pgaa.pgaa_version();
```

Once installed, you can [configure a storage location](storage_location) to grant PGAA access to your data lake, or integrate Postgres [with an Iceberg catalog](catalog).

Examples:

Point to parquet files:

```sql
SELECT pgaa.test_storage_location ('my-storage-location', false);
```

The function returns `NULL` if successful.

Commit message:

Add Spark limitation for Iceberg, upgrade command and epas repo instructions

product_docs/docs/pgaa/1.6/installing.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing Analytics Accelerator
navTitle: Installing
description: Step-by-step instructions to install the PGAA extension.
---

To use the Postgres Analytics Accelerator (PGAA), you must install the extension on your PostgreSQL instance and enable the background worker for the query engine. See [Compatibility](overview/compatibility) for a full list of supported platforms.

## Downloading and installing the package

Download the package from the EDB repository:

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
export EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN=<your-token>
export EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN=<your-subscription-plan>
curl -1sSLf "https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN/setup.deb.sh" | sudo -E bash
sudo apt-get install -y <postgresql-distribution>-pgaa
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
export EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN=<your-token>
EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN=<your-subscription-plan>
curl -1sSLf "https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN/$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN/setup.rpm.sh" | sudo -E bash
sudo dnf install -y <postgresql-distribution>-pgaa
```

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

Where

- `$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_TOKEN` is the token you received when you registered for the EDB subscription.
- `$EDB_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN` is either `standard` (for PGE or Community Postgres) or `enterprise` (for EPAS).
- `<postgresql-distribution>` specifies your Postgres distribution (`edb-postgresextended`, `edb-as`, or `postgres`), and version.


## Enabling the extension 

To initialize PGAA, you must update your `postgresql.conf` file. Adding `pgaa` to `shared_preload_libraries` allows Postgres to manage the life cycle of the Seafowl query engine as a background worker.

1. Edit `postgresql.conf`:

    ```ini
    shared_preload_libraries = 'pgaa'
    pgaa.autostart_seafowl = on
    ```

1. Restart your PostgreSQL service to load the new library. 

1. Log in to your Postgres instance. Depending on whether this is a new installation or an update, run the appropriate command:

    - For new installations:

        ```sql
        CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgaa CASCADE;
        ```
        
        Using `CASCADE` ensures that required dependencies, such as the Postgres File System (`PGFS`), are automatically installed.

    - For upgrading an existing installation:

        ```sql
        ALTER EXTENSION pgaa UPDATE;
        ```

## Verifying the installation

Confirm that the extension is active using the `\dx` meta-command or by calling the version function:

```sql
SELECT pgaa.pgaa_version();
```

Once installed, you can [configure a storage location](storage_location) to grant PGAA access to your data lake, or integrate Postgres [with an Iceberg catalog](catalog).

Examples:

Point to parquet files:

```sql
SELECT pgaa.test_storage_location ('my-storage-location', false);
```

The function returns `NULL` if successful.
