---
title: "Failover Manager with Pgpool"
---

Pgpool-II is a popular connection pooler which can provide many functionalities, like read-only traffic load balancing, connection pooling and running as a clustered proxy. With Failover Manager to manage availability and reconfiguring Pgpool-II to proxy to the correct primary the setup can deliver high availability in an on-premises setup as well as a cloud setup.


Failover Manager with Pgpool On-premises
-----------------------------------------

For an on-premises setup, you can use a VIP to route the traffic to an available Pgpool-II instance. In this setup, the automatic failover of Pgpool-II is disabled, and Failover Manager is configured to manage Pgpool-II.


![Failover Manager with Pgpool on-premises](images/efm_with_pgpool_on_premises.png)

<div style="text-align: center">Figure 5: Failover Manager's traffic routing using Pgpool on-premises</div>

Failover Manager with Pgpool in Cloud
--------------------------------------

For environments with Network Load Balancers (e.a. cloud environments), you can use an NLB (Network Load Balancer) to balance the traffic over all available Pgpool-II instances without requiring a VIP.

![Failover Manager with Pgpool in cloud](images/efm_with_pgpool_on_cloud.png)

<div style="text-align: center">Figure 6: Failover Manager's traffic routing using Pgpool in cloud</div>

## Using Failover Manager with Pgpool 


### Installing

Install and configure Advanced Server database, Failover Manager, and
Pgpool as following:

  
  **Systems**                           |  **Components**
  --------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  PgDB server 1, server2, and server 3  | Primary / standby node running Advanced Server 13 and Failover Manager 4.2
  Pgpool                                |Pgpool node running Pgpool 4.2 in a watchdog configuration. These 3 nodes should be registered as targets in the Target Group. Note that there could be more, but 3 is the minimum, and is sufficient for most cases.
  
  

Note that EDB does not support this architecture with Pgpool-II and
Failover Manager/PostgreSQL running on the same machines for the
following reasons:

-   A restriction with Cloud Network Load Balancers does not route
    traffic properly when source and destination reside on the same
    machines.

-   In mixed architecture, traffic between Pgpool and Postgres could
    become unbalanced.

-   Pgpool and PostgreSQL could compete for resources.

### Configuring Failover Manager

Failover Manager provides functionality that will remove failed database
nodes from Pgpool load balancing; it can also re-attach nodes to Pgpool
when returned to the Failover Manager cluster. To configure Failover
Manager for high availability using Pgpool, you must set the following
properties in the cluster properties file:

``` text
    pgpool.enable = true

    pcp.user = User that would be invoking PCP commands

    pcp.host = Virtual IP of PgPool or IP of NLB

    pcp.port = 9898

    pcp.pass.file = Absolute path of PCPPASSFILE

    pgpool.bin = Absolute path of pgpool bin directory
```
### Configuring Pgpool

The section lists the configuration of some important parameters in the
pgpool.conf file to integrate Pgpool-II with Failover Manager.

#### Backend node setting

There are three PostgreSQL backend nodes, one Primary and two Standby
nodes. Configure using backend_* configuration parameters in
pgpool.conf, and use the equal backend weights for all nodes. This will
make the read queries to be distributed equally among all nodes.
``` text

    backend_hostname0 = 'server1_IP'

    backend_port0 = 5444

    backend_weight0 = 1

    backend_flag0 = 'ALLOW_TO_FAILOVER'

    backend_hostname1 = 'server2_IP'

    backend_port1 = 5444

    backend_weight1 = 1

    backend_flag1 = 'ALLOW_TO_FAILOVER'

    backend_hostname2 = 'server3_IP'

    backend_port2 = 5444

    backend_weight2 = 1

    backend_flag2 = 'ALLOW_TO_FAILOVER'

```

#### Enabling Load-balancing and streaming replication mode

Set the following configuration parameter in the pgpool.conf file to enable load balancing and streaming replication mode:

-   For Pgpool version 4.2:

    ``` text 
        backend_clustering_mode = 'streaming_replication'

        load_balance_mode = on
    ```

-  For Pgpool versions prior to 4.2:

    ``` text
        master_slave_mode = on

        master_slave_sub_mode = 'stream'

        load_balance_mode = on
    ```
#### Disabling health-checking and failover

Health-checking and failover must be handled by Failover Manager and
hence, these must be disabled on Pgpool-II side. To disable the
health-check and failover on Pgpool-II side, assign the following
values:

``` text

    health_check_period = 0

    failover_on_backend_error = off

    failover_if_affected_tuples_mismatch = off

    failover_command = ''

    failback_command = ''

```

Ensure the following while setting up the values in the pgpool.conf
file:

-   Keep the value of `wd_priority` in `pgpool.conf` different on each
    node. The node with the highest value gets the highest priority.

-   The properties `backend_hostname0`, `backend_hostname1`,
    `backend_hostname2`, and so on are shared properties (in EFM terms)
    and should hold the same value in the pgpool.conf file on all the Pgpool-II nodes.

-   Update the correct interface value in `if_ *` and `arping` cmd props
    in the `pgpool.conf` file.

-   Add the properties heartbeat_destination0, heartbeat_destination1,
    heartbeat_destination2, and so on as per the number of nodes in
    `pgpool.conf` file on every node. Here heartbeat_destination0 should
    be the IP address or hostname of the local node.

#### Setting up PCP

The script uses the PCP interface, so you need to set up the PCP and
.PCPPASS file to allow PCP connections without a password prompt.

To setup PCP, see:
[http://www.pgpool.net/docs/latest/en/html/configuring-pcp-conf.html](http://www.pgpool.net/docs/latest/en/html/configuring-pcp-conf.html)

To setup PCPPASS, see:
[https://www.pgpool.net/docs/latest/en/html/pcp-commands.html](https://www.pgpool.net/docs/latest/en/html/pcp-commands.html)

Note that the load-balancing is turned on to ensure read scalability by
distributing read traffic across the standby nodes.

The health checking and error-triggered backend failover have been
turned off, as Failover Manager will be responsible for performing
health checks and triggering failover. It is not advisable for Pgpool to
perform health checking in this case, so as not to create a conflict
with Failover Manager, or prematurely perform failover.

Finally, `search_primary_node_timeout` has been set to a low value to
ensure prompt recovery of Pgpool services upon a Failover
Manager-triggered failover.

#### Using Virtual IP Addresses

Both Pgpool-II and Failover Manager provide the functionality to employ
a virtual IP for seamless failover. While both provide this capability,
the Pgpool-II leader is the process that receives the Application
connections through the Virtual IP. As in this design, such Virtual IP
management is performed by the Pgpool-II watchdog system. Failover
Manager VIP has no beneficial effect in this design and it must be
disabled.

Note that in a failure situation of the active instance of Pgpool (the
Primary Pgpool Server in our sample architecture), the next available
Standby Pgpool instance (according to watchdog priority) is activated
and takes charge as the leader Pgpool instance.

### Configuring Network Load Balancer

For Failover Manager Pgpool integration using Network Load Balancer in
AWS or Azure, you need to perform some additional steps.

<div id="sg_rules_pgpool" class="registered_link"></div>

Add the following rules to the security groups to be used by the Pgpool instances:

-   Rules for the security group to be used by the Pgpool instances (SG
    Pgpool).

    Type      | Protocol      |   Port range   |   Source       |   Description
  ------------|---------------|----------------|----------------|-------------------
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 9000           |  Entire Subnet |  Watchdog
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 9694           |  Entire Subnet |  Heartbeat
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 9898           |  Entire Subnet |  pcp
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 9999           |  Entire Subnet |  Pgpool

 In addition to the above rules, add the rules for SSH and Ping as per your requirement.

-   Rules for the security group to be used by the database instances
    (SG DB):

     Type      | Protocol      |   Port range   |   Source       |   Description
  ------------|---------------|----------------|----------------|-------------------
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 7800           | Entire Subnet  | Failover Manager
  Custom TCP  | TCP           | 5444           | Entire Subnet  |Postgres
 

 This ensures that the ports required to run the database, Failover  Manager, and Pgpool are open for communication between the nodes and
 the Load Balancer for traffic routing and health monitoring.

 In addition to these rules, add the rules for SSH and Ping as per your requirement.

 If you are using Azure, proceed to the following section. If using AWS, see [Configuring NLB in AWS](#config_nlb_aws).

#### Configuring NLB in Azure

After configuring the rules described in [Creating rules for security groups](#sg_rules_pgpool), follow the Azure documentation to:

-  Create a Backend pool consisting of all the virtual machines running Pgpool instances. Use the private IPs of the virtual machines to create the Backend pool.

-  Add a health probe to check if the Pgpool instance is available on the virtual machines. Select Protocol as `TCP` and Port as `9999`.

-  Add two Load balancing rules - one each for port `9898` and port `9999`. These rules should ensure that the network traffic coming towards that particular port gets distributed evenly among all the virtual machines present in the Backend pool. Select the Type as `Public` Load Balancer or `Internal` Load Balancer.

After completing these configurations, you can connect to the database
on the IP address of the Network Load Balancer on port 9999. If a
failure occurs on the Primary database server, Failover Manager will
promote a new Primary and then reconfigure Pgpool to redistribute
traffic. If any one of the Pgpool processes is not available to accept
traffic anymore, the Network Load Balancer will redistribute all the
traffic to the remaining two Pgpool processes. Make sure that
`listen_backlog_multiplier` parameter is tuned to compensate for the
higher number of connections in case of failover.

<div id="config_nlb_aws" class="registered_link"></div>

#### Configuring NLB in AWS

The following assumptions have been taken for the sample configuration:

-  All the EC2 instances and the Loadbalancer are deployed in the same
    Subnet. Note that if required, the database nodes could be added to
    another Subnet, but that requires a more complex configuration and
    might have a performance impact.

-  There is a security group for Pgpool and a security group for the
    database instances.

After configuring the rules described in [Creating rules for security groups](#sg_rules_pgpool), follow the AWS documentation to:

-   Create two target groups with the following details:

     Name          | Type           | Protocol       |   Port         |   VPC
    ---------------|----------------|----------------|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------
    pcp            | Instances      | TCP            |  9898          |  Select the VPC to which the instances are connected.
    pgpool         | Instances      | TCP            |  9999          |  Select the VPC to which the instances are connected.
      
    Leave the rest of the settings (Health check TCP and Advanced health check settings) as default.

    Register the created Target Groups with the instances that are running PgBouncer.

-   Create a Load Balancer with the following details:

     Type                                                                  | VPC                                           | Listener                                                                                                                                                                | 
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    `Public` or `Internal`. EDB recommends using an Internal Load Balancer.| Choose a VPC and map it to the desired zones. | Create a listener with `TCP` as `9898`, and forward it to the target group pcp. Create another listener with `TCP` as `9999`, and forward it to the target group pgpool.|
 

After completing the configurations, you can connect to the database on
the IP address of the Network Load Balancer on port 9999. If a failure
occurs on the Primary database server, Failover Manager will promote a
new Primary and then reconfigure Pgpool to redistribute traffic. If any
one of the Pgpool processes is not available to accept traffic anymore,
the Network Load Balancer will redistribute all the traffic to the
remaining two Pgpool processes. Make sure that
`listen_backlog_multiplier` is tuned to compensate for the higher number
of connections in case of failover.
