product_docs/docs/pgd/4.4/bdr/group-commit.mdx, before:

---
title: Group Commit
---

The goal of Group Commit is to protect against data loss
in case of single node failures or temporary outages. You achieve this
by requiring more than one BDR node to successfully receive and
confirm a transaction at COMMIT time.

## Requirements

During normal operation, Group Commit is completely transparent to the
application.  Upon failover, the reconciliation phase needs to be
explicitly triggered or consolidated by either the application or a
proxy in between. HARP provides native support for Group Commit and
triggers the reconciliation phase, making this equally transparent
to the client.

On the origin node, a transaction committed with Group Commit uses
two-phase commit underneath. Therefore, configure `max_prepared_transactions`
high enough to handle all such transactions
originating per node.

## Configuration

To use Group Commit, first define a commit scope. This
determines the BDR nodes involved in the commit of a transaction.
Once a scope is established, you can configure a transaction to use
Group Commit as follows:

```sql
BEGIN;
SET LOCAL bdr.commit_scope = 'example_scope';
...
COMMIT;
```

The commit scope must be set before the transaction has written any data.

For this example, you might previously have defined the commit scope as:

```sql
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'example_bdr_group',
    rule := 'ANY 2 (example_bdr_group)'
);
```

This assumes a *node group* named `example_bdr_group` exists and
includes at least two BDR nodes as members, either directly or in
subgroups. Any transaction committed in the `example_scope`
requires one extra confirmation from a BDR node in the group.
Together with the origin node, this accounts for "ANY 2" nodes out of
the group, on which the transaction is guaranteed to be visible and
durable after the commit.

### Origin groups

Rules for commit scopes can depend on the node the transaction is
committed on, that is, the node that acts as the origin for the transaction.
To make this transparent for the application, BDR allows a commit
scope to define different rules depending on where the transaction
originates from.

For example, consider a EDB Postgres Distributed cluster with nodes spread across two data
centers: a left and a right one. Assume the top-level BDR node group
is called `top_group`. You can use the following commands to set up
subgroups and create a commit scope requiring all nodes in the local
data center to confirm the transaction but only one node from the
remote one.

```sql
-- create sub-groups
SELECT bdr.create_node_group(
    node_group_name := 'left_dc',
    parent_group_name := 'top_group',
    join_node_group := false
);
SELECT bdr.create_node_group(
    node_group_name := 'right_dc',
    parent_group_name := 'top_group',
    join_node_group := false
);

-- create a commit scope with individual rules
-- for each sub-group
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'left_dc',
    rule := 'ALL (left_dc) AND ANY 1 (right_dc)'
);
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'right_dc',
    rule := 'ANY 1 (left_dc) AND ALL (right_dc)'
);
```

### Confirmation levels

BDR nodes can send confirmations for a transaction at different points
in time, similar to [Commit At Most Once](camo). In increasing
levels of protection, from the perspective of the confirming node,
these are:

* `received` &mdash; A remote BDR node confirms the transaction immediately
  after receiving it, prior to starting the local application.
* `replicated` &mdash; Confirm after applying changes of the transaction
  but before flushing them to disk.
* `durable` &mdash; Confirm the transaction after all of its changes are
  flushed to disk.
* `visible` (default) &mdash; Confirm the transaction after all of its
  changes are flushed to disk and it's visible to
  concurrent transactions.

In rules for commit scopes, you can append these confirmation levels
to the node group definition in parenthesis with `ON` as follows:

* `ANY 2 (right_dc) ON replicated`
* `ALL (left_dc) ON visible` (default and may as well be
  omitted)
* `ALL (left_dc) ON received AND ANY 1 (right_dc) ON durable`

## Reference

### Commit scope grammar

For reference, the grammar for commit scopes is composed as follows:

```
commit_scope:
    confirmation [AND ...]

confirmation:
    node_def (ON [received|replicated|durable|visible])

node_def:
    ANY num (node_group [, ...])
    | MAJORITY (node_group [, ...])
    | ALL (node_group [, ...])
```

!!! Note
    While the grammar for `synchronous_standby_names` and Commit
    Scopes looks very similar, it is important to note that the former
    does not account for the origin node, but the latter does.
    Therefore, for example `synchronous_standby_names = 'ANY 1 (..)'`
    is equivalent to a Commit Scope of `ANY 2 (...)`.  This choice
    makes reasoning about majority easier and reflects that the origin
    node also contributes to the durability and visibility of the
    transaction.

### Adding a commit scope rule

The function `bdr.add_commit_scope` creates a rule for the given
commit scope name and origin node group. If the rule is the same for
all nodes in the EDB Postgres Distributed cluster, invoking this function once for the
top-level node group is enough to fully define the commit scope.

Alternatively, you can invoke it multiple times with the same
`commit_scope_name` but different origin node groups and rules for
commit scopes that vary depending on the origin of the transaction.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME,
    rule TEXT)
```

### Changing a commit scope rule

To change a specific rule for a single origin node group in a
commit scope, you can use the function `bdr.alter_commit_scope`.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.alter_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME,
    rule TEXT)
```

### Removing a commit scope rule

You can use `bdr.remove_commit_scope` to drop a single rule in
a commit scope. If you define multiple rules for the commit scope, you must invoke
this function once per rule to fully remove the entire
commit scope.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.remove_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME)
```

!!! Note
    Removing a commit scope that is still used as default by a node
    group is not allowed

Commit message:

Add warning for group commit

product_docs/docs/pgd/4.4/bdr/group-commit.mdx, after:

---
title: Group Commit
---

The goal of Group Commit is to protect against data loss
in case of single node failures or temporary outages. You achieve this
by requiring more than one BDR node to successfully receive and
confirm a transaction at COMMIT time.

!!! Warning
    Group commit is currently offered as an experimental feature intended for preview and
    evaluation purposes. While it provides valuable capabilities, it has known limitations
    and challenges that make it unsuitable for production environments. We recommend that
    customers avoid using this feature in production scenarios until these limitations
    are addressed in future releases.


## Requirements

During normal operation, Group Commit is completely transparent to the
application.  Upon failover, the reconciliation phase needs to be
explicitly triggered or consolidated by either the application or a
proxy in between. HARP provides native support for Group Commit and
triggers the reconciliation phase, making this equally transparent
to the client.

On the origin node, a transaction committed with Group Commit uses
two-phase commit underneath. Therefore, configure `max_prepared_transactions`
high enough to handle all such transactions
originating per node.

## Configuration

To use Group Commit, first define a commit scope. This
determines the BDR nodes involved in the commit of a transaction.
Once a scope is established, you can configure a transaction to use
Group Commit as follows:

```sql
BEGIN;
SET LOCAL bdr.commit_scope = 'example_scope';
...
COMMIT;
```

The commit scope must be set before the transaction has written any data.

For this example, you might previously have defined the commit scope as:

```sql
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'example_bdr_group',
    rule := 'ANY 2 (example_bdr_group)'
);
```

This assumes a *node group* named `example_bdr_group` exists and
includes at least two BDR nodes as members, either directly or in
subgroups. Any transaction committed in the `example_scope`
requires one extra confirmation from a BDR node in the group.
Together with the origin node, this accounts for "ANY 2" nodes out of
the group, on which the transaction is guaranteed to be visible and
durable after the commit.

### Origin groups

Rules for commit scopes can depend on the node the transaction is
committed on, that is, the node that acts as the origin for the transaction.
To make this transparent for the application, BDR allows a commit
scope to define different rules depending on where the transaction
originates from.

For example, consider a EDB Postgres Distributed cluster with nodes spread across two data
centers: a left and a right one. Assume the top-level BDR node group
is called `top_group`. You can use the following commands to set up
subgroups and create a commit scope requiring all nodes in the local
data center to confirm the transaction but only one node from the
remote one.

```sql
-- create sub-groups
SELECT bdr.create_node_group(
    node_group_name := 'left_dc',
    parent_group_name := 'top_group',
    join_node_group := false
);
SELECT bdr.create_node_group(
    node_group_name := 'right_dc',
    parent_group_name := 'top_group',
    join_node_group := false
);

-- create a commit scope with individual rules
-- for each sub-group
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'left_dc',
    rule := 'ALL (left_dc) AND ANY 1 (right_dc)'
);
SELECT bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name := 'example_scope',
    origin_node_group := 'right_dc',
    rule := 'ANY 1 (left_dc) AND ALL (right_dc)'
);
```

### Confirmation levels

BDR nodes can send confirmations for a transaction at different points
in time, similar to [Commit At Most Once](camo). In increasing
levels of protection, from the perspective of the confirming node,
these are:

* `received` &mdash; A remote BDR node confirms the transaction immediately
  after receiving it, prior to starting the local application.
* `replicated` &mdash; Confirm after applying changes of the transaction
  but before flushing them to disk.
* `durable` &mdash; Confirm the transaction after all of its changes are
  flushed to disk.
* `visible` (default) &mdash; Confirm the transaction after all of its
  changes are flushed to disk and it's visible to
  concurrent transactions.

In rules for commit scopes, you can append these confirmation levels
to the node group definition in parenthesis with `ON` as follows:

* `ANY 2 (right_dc) ON replicated`
* `ALL (left_dc) ON visible` (default and may as well be
  omitted)
* `ALL (left_dc) ON received AND ANY 1 (right_dc) ON durable`

## Reference

### Commit scope grammar

For reference, the grammar for commit scopes is composed as follows:

```
commit_scope:
    confirmation [AND ...]

confirmation:
    node_def (ON [received|replicated|durable|visible])

node_def:
    ANY num (node_group [, ...])
    | MAJORITY (node_group [, ...])
    | ALL (node_group [, ...])
```

!!! Note
    While the grammar for `synchronous_standby_names` and Commit
    Scopes looks very similar, it is important to note that the former
    does not account for the origin node, but the latter does.
    Therefore, for example `synchronous_standby_names = 'ANY 1 (..)'`
    is equivalent to a Commit Scope of `ANY 2 (...)`.  This choice
    makes reasoning about majority easier and reflects that the origin
    node also contributes to the durability and visibility of the
    transaction.

### Adding a commit scope rule

The function `bdr.add_commit_scope` creates a rule for the given
commit scope name and origin node group. If the rule is the same for
all nodes in the EDB Postgres Distributed cluster, invoking this function once for the
top-level node group is enough to fully define the commit scope.

Alternatively, you can invoke it multiple times with the same
`commit_scope_name` but different origin node groups and rules for
commit scopes that vary depending on the origin of the transaction.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.add_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME,
    rule TEXT)
```

### Changing a commit scope rule

To change a specific rule for a single origin node group in a
commit scope, you can use the function `bdr.alter_commit_scope`.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.alter_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME,
    rule TEXT)
```

### Removing a commit scope rule

You can use `bdr.remove_commit_scope` to drop a single rule in
a commit scope. If you define multiple rules for the commit scope, you must invoke
this function once per rule to fully remove the entire
commit scope.

#### Synopsis

```sql
bdr.remove_commit_scope(
    commit_scope_name NAME,
    origin_node_group NAME)
```

!!! Note
    Removing a commit scope that is still used as default by a node
    group is not allowed
