product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/hadr/considerations.mdx, before:

---
title: Considerations and backup requirements 
navTitle: Considerations and backup requirements
description: Learn more about what to expect about best practices for HA/DR with Hybrid Manager.
---

Disaster can affect Hybrid Manager (HM) and make it unusable. For example, unavailability of the CSP region for an EKS-based appliance or an outage in a datacenter that makes a hardware appliance unusable can occur. A disaster recovery (DR) option allows you to restore your databases at the point-in-time from your available backups.  

HM backups are handled with [Velero](https://velero.io/).

There are two possible scenarios for recovering HM:

-   **Restore HM to original location**: You have two data centers (DC1, DC2), and HM runs in DC1. You need to restore HM from object storage to DC1.  

-   **Restore HM to alternative location**:  You have two data centers (DC1, DC2), and HM runs in DC1. You need to restore HM from object storage to DC2.

## Disaster recovery (DR) scope

You can use the DR procedure to restore:

-   The Postgres clusters that you created with HM.
-   For HM environments with [multi-DC enabled](/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/multi-dc/), you can restore the custom managed storage locations as you defined them in the associated s3-compatible storage area.

!!! note
    The DR procedures don't cover the migration components. However, you can apply the DR procedure to restore the original databases of HM-internal `transporter-db` and `migration-db` services.

## RTO and RPO

The ability to do any restore, the associated recovery time objective (RTO), and recovery point objective (RPO) depend on the frequency and size of the backups.

As those factors have significant variation depending on the criticality assigned to the environment and the nature of your data, you don't know RTO and RPO values in advance. We recommend that you properly prepare the environment and perform periodic disaster recovery exercises to ensure your RTO and RPO requirements can be met.

## Backup readiness

Each appliance has a linked s3-compatible storage that stores:

-   Internal backups (HM appliance data)
-   Postgres backups (Postgres database backups)

You can also define custom storage locations in the same bucket to be used in the platform.

All of this data needs to be available after a disaster. Depending on the criticality of the data and the level of disaster that you want to be able to recover from, you’ll need to replicate this data outside of the CSP region or physical datacenter where the appliance resides.

!!! tip
    When using an AWS S3 bucket, you can achieve replication by using [cross-region replication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/replication.html#crr-scenario).

Postgres databases use continuous backup by default, so you can restore them at any point in time. They are limited only by backup lifecycle policies.

Critical appliance data, such as the definition of the Postgres clusters, is stored as Kubernetes objects and included in the Velero backup. By default, this backup happens daily at 23:00, as defined by the default schedule `velero-backup-kube-state`.

If your RPO requires more frequent backups, you can define a new backup schedule.

!!! Danger
    Do not modify the default schedule, as it may be overwritten by an appliance software update.

The following example shows a custom schedule to back up the needed resources each hour:

```yaml
apiVersion: velero.io/v1  
kind: Schedule  
metadata:  
  name: custom-velero-backup-kube-state  
  namespace: velero  
spec:  
  schedule: 0 \* \* \* \*  
  skipImmediately: false  
  template:  
    includedNamespaces:  
    \- '\*'  
    includedResources:  
    \- storagelocations.biganimal.enterprisedb.com  
    \- clusterwrappers.beacon.enterprisedb.com  
    \- backupwrappers.beacon.enterprisedb.com  
    snapshotVolumes: false  
    ttl: 168h
```

Commit message:

questions for considerations section of HA/DR backup

product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/hadr/considerations.mdx, after:

---
title: Considerations and backup requirements 
navTitle: Considerations and backup requirements
description: Learn more about what to expect about best practices for HA/DR with Hybrid Manager.
---

Disaster can affect Hybrid Manager (HM) and make it unusable. For example, unavailability of the underlying Cloud Service Provider (CSP) region or an outage in a data center that makes hardware unusable can occur. A disaster recovery (DR) option allows you to restore your databases at the point-in-time from your available backups.

HM backups are handled with [Velero](https://velero.io/).

There are two possible scenarios for recovering HM:

-   **Restore HM to original location**: You have two data centers (DC1, DC2), and HM runs in DC1. You need to restore HM from object storage to DC1.

-   **Restore HM to alternative location**: You have two data centers (DC1, DC2), and HM runs in DC1. You need to restore HM from object storage to DC2.

## Disaster recovery (DR) scope

You can use the DR procedure to restore:

-   The Postgres clusters that you created with HM.
-   For HM environments with [multi-DC enabled](/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/multi-dc/), you can restore the custom managed storage locations as you defined them in the associated s3-compatible storage area.

!!! note
    The DR procedures don't cover the migration components. However, you can apply the DR procedure to restore the original databases of HM-internal `transporter-db` and `migration-db` services.

## RTO and RPO

The ability to do any restore, the associated recovery time objective (RTO), and recovery point objective (RPO) depend on the frequency and size of the backups.

As those factors have significant variation depending on the criticality assigned to the environment and the nature of your data, you don't know RTO and RPO values in advance. We recommend that you properly prepare the environment and perform periodic disaster recovery exercises to ensure your RTO and RPO requirements can be met.

## Backup readiness

During installation, you configure an [s3-compatible storage](/edb-postgres-ai/latest/hybrid-manager/install/sys_reqs/#7-object-storage) for your HM instance that stores:

[change link to preview]: #

-   Internal backups (HM control plane data)
-   Postgres backups (Postgres database backups or data plane data)

You can also define custom storage locations in the same bucket to be used by your HM instance.

All of this data needs to be available after a disaster. Depending on the criticality of the data and the level of disaster that you want to be able to recover from, you’ll need to replicate this data outside of the CSP region or physical data center where the HM instance resides.

!!! tip
    When using an AWS S3 bucket, you can achieve replication by using [cross-region replication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/replication.html#crr-scenario).

    [do we mean replication of the object storage bucket? Also, we support not only AWS, but also Azure, GCP and other, so I wonder if we should generalize this item]: # 

Postgres databases use continuous backup by default, so you can restore them at any point in time. They are limited only by backup lifecycle policies.

Critical appliance data, such as the definition of the Postgres clusters, is stored as Kubernetes objects and included in the Velero backup. By default, this backup happens daily at 23:00, as defined by the default schedule `velero-backup-kube-state`.

If your RPO requires more frequent backups, you can define a new backup schedule.

[here we say to define a new backup schedule, but then in the next "danger" do not overwrite it, so this is a bit contradictory...]: #

!!! Danger
    Do not modify the default schedule, as it may be overwritten by a HM software update.

[related to my question above, maybe we mean that the existing default shouldn't be overwritten but rather complemented with an additional one?, for example "Complement the default schedule by creating an additional custom backup schedule instead."]: #

The following example shows a custom schedule to back up the needed resources each hour:

[Below we don't say where nor how to store the CRD with the custom backup schedule. Do we apply with a kubectl command? in which namespace? we should provide more input]: #

```yaml
apiVersion: velero.io/v1  
kind: Schedule  
metadata:  
  name: custom-velero-backup-kube-state  
  namespace: velero  
spec:  
  schedule: 0 \* \* \* \*  
  skipImmediately: false  
  template:  
    includedNamespaces:  
    \- '\*'  
    includedResources:  
    \- storagelocations.biganimal.enterprisedb.com  
    \- clusterwrappers.beacon.enterprisedb.com  
    \- backupwrappers.beacon.enterprisedb.com  
    snapshotVolumes: false  
    ttl: 168h
```
