product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/hadr/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Hybrid Manager backup and disaster recovery
navTitle: Disaster recovery
description: Learn about planning and best practices for backup and disaster recovery with Hybrid Manager.
navigation:
  - hadr
  - backup_considerations
  - hadr_recovery

---

Learn about disaster recovery (DR) for your Hybrid Manager (HM) installation and clusters. This section includes the following topics:

-   [Best practices](hadr.mdx) &mdash; Helps you plan your DR strategies and understand the requirements and considerations for a successful disaster recovery scenario.
-   [Backup considerations](backup_considerations.mdx) &mdash; Explains the backup requirements and considerations for HM, including the scope of DR, recovery time objective (RTO) and recovery point objective (RPO) times and backup readiness.  
-   [Disaster recovery](hadr_recovery.mdx) &mdash; Provides a step-by-step guide to perform a disaster recovery of your HM instance and Postgres clusters using Velero. This includes restoring the HM control plane and Postgres clusters from backups, as well as verifying the restore process.

Commit message:

removed HA page, and added new overview page

product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/hadr/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Hybrid Manager backup and disaster recovery
navTitle: Disaster recovery
description: Learn about planning and best practices for backup and disaster recovery with Hybrid Manager.
navigation:
  - overview
  - backup_considerations
  - hadr_recovery
redirects: 
 - /edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/hadr/hadr/

---

Learn about disaster recovery (DR) for your Hybrid Manager (HM) installation and clusters. This section includes the following topics:

-   [Overview](architecture) &mdash; Provides an overview of the disaster recovery procedure and requirements.
-   [Configuring backups](backup_considerations.mdx) &mdash; Explains how to ensure the backup requirements for DR are met, while considering their recovery time objective (RTO) and recovery point objective (RPO) times.  
-   [Disaster recovery](hadr_recovery.mdx) &mdash; Provides a step-by-step guide to perform a disaster recovery of your HM instance and Postgres clusters using Velero. This includes restoring the HM control plane and data plane from backups, as well as verifying the restore process.
