product_docs/docs/pem/10/installing/ha/patroni_sm.mdx, before:

---
title: "HA PEM using the SM architecture with Patroni"
navTitle: "SM architecture with Patroni"
---

This page provides detailed instructions to install and configure a High Availability (HA) PEM deployment according to reference architecture SM.

This example uses Patroni for cluster management, PostgreSQL 17 as the PEM backend database, and multi-host strings as the mechanism for routing traffic to the primary.
Our operating system is RHEL 9 x86. 

Please see [High Availability Patterns for PEM Deployment](../../considerations/ha_pem.mdx) to understand other options.
    
The examples that follow use these IP addresses:

-   172.16.161.200 - PEM Backend Primary
-   172.16.161.201 - PEM Backend Standby 1
-   172.16.161.202 - PEM Backend Standby 2
-   172.16.161.211 - PEM Web Application 1
-   172.16.161.212 - PEM Web Application 2
-   172.16.161.213 - PEM Web Application 3
-   172.16.161.111 - etcd-node-1
-   172.16.161.112 - etcd-node-2
-   172.16.161.113 - etcd-node-3

## Setting up a Distributed Consensus Store with etcd

Patroni requires a Distributed Consensus Store (DCS). If you already have a DCS set up using etcd, you may skip this step and use your existing DCS.
Here we will create a minimal three-node DCS on three hosts, separate from the HA PEM application cluster.

On each node:

1.  Install etcd from the PGDG repository

    ```shell
    dnf install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-9-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm
    dnf --enablerepo=pgdg-rhel9-extras install -y etcd
    ```
2.  Replace the contents of `/etc/etcd/etcd.conf` with the following, substituting the appropriate values for `<node-ip>` and `node-name`.
    For example, `172.16.161.111` and `etcd-node-1`.

    ```ini
    #[Member]
    ETCD_LISTEN_PEER_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2380"
    ETCD_LISTEN_CLIENT_URLS="http://localhost:2379,http://<node-ip>:2379"
    ETCD_NAME="<node-name>"
    #[Clustering]
    ETCD_INITIAL_ADVERTISE_PEER_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="etcd-node-1=http://172.16.161.111:2380,etcd-node-2=http://172.16.161.112:2380,etcd-node-3=http://172.16.161.113:2380"
    ETCD_ADVERTISE_CLIENT_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2379"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_TOKEN="etcd-cluster-1"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE="new"
    ```

3.  Ensure that ports `2380` and `2379` are open on the firewall.

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2380/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2379/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

4. Ensure that the etcd service is restarted and enabled.

    ```shell
    systemctl enable etcd
    systemctl restart etcd
    ```

## Configuring EDB Repos

On all backend and web application nodes, configure EDB Repos.
Refer to [Getting started with repositories](/repos/getting_started/) for more detail.

```shell
curl -1sLf  'https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/<token>/<repo>/setup.rpm.sh' | bash
```

## Deploying the PEM backend

### Initial package installation and Postgres configuration

Perform the following steps on all backend nodes unless stated otherwise.

1.  Install the following packages:

    -   [PostgreSQL](/supported-open-source/postgresql/installing/) (backend database for PEM Server)
    -   [sslutils](../linux_x86_64/pem_rhel_9/#prerequisites) (see Prerequisites in PEM server installation)
    -   [PEM Server](/pem/latest/installing/)
    -   [Patroni](/supported-open-source/patroni/installing_patroni/)

    ```shell
    dnf -qy module disable postgresql
    dnf -y --allowerasing install postgresql17-server postgresql17-contrib edb-pem sslutils_17 edb-patroni
    ```

1.  Initialize a Postgres database and start the service.

    ```shell
    PGSETUP_INITDB_OPTIONS="-E UTF-8" /usr/pgsql-17/bin/postgresql-17-setup initdb
    systemctl start postgresql-17
    systemctl enable postgresql-17
    ```

1.  Open port `5432` on the firewall:

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=5432/tcp --permanent 
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

### Configure PEM on the primary backend node

Configure the PEM database installation **on the primary backend server only**:

Perform the following steps on the primary.

1.  Create a superuser that can login using a password. This is the user we will use to install PEM.
    It will also become the agent-server binding user for the agents running on PEM backend hosts.
    ```shell
    su - postgres -c "psql -c \"create role pemserver login superuser password 'your-password-here';\""
    ```

1.  Run the PEM configuration script, specifying option 3 (Database) and the IPs of all three backend hosts as `pemserver` user.
    Provide the loopback IP address rather than the external IP address for the primary.
    If you are using PEM 10.3 or later, also specify the agent-server-binding host as the loopback IP.

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh -t 3 \
                                             -ho '127.0.0.1,172.16.161.201,172.16.161.202' \
                                             -su pemserver \
                                             -asb-host-name '127.0.0.1'
    ```
    You will be prompted for various additional details. 
    For configuration options see, [Configuring the PEM server on Linux](/pem/latest/installing/configuring_the_pem_server_on_linux/).

1. Optionally, to synchronize PEM web application user preferences between instances, [configure central storage of user preferences](user_settings.md).
   At this stage, you can only complete the backend configuration. 
   We will configure the web application later.


### Copy the configuration record to the standbys

Copy the file `/usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config` from the primary to all standbys.
This ensures you will be able to upgrade PEM from whichever node is the current primary in future.

### Set up Patroni on the primary node

#### Create Patroni users and generate a configuration file

1.  Create the Patroni superuser, replication and rewind roles. Execute the following SQL as a superuser.

    ```sql
    -- Patroni superuser
    CREATE USER patroni_super WITH SUPERUSER ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';

    -- Patroni replication user
    CREATE USER patroni_rep WITH REPLICATION ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';

    -- Patroni rewind user, if you intend to enable use_pg_rewind in your Patroni configuration
    CREATE USER patroni_rew WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_ls_dir(text, boolean, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_stat_file(text, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_read_binary_file(text) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_read_binary_file(text, bigint, bigint, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    ```

    Give the passwords of your choice.

1.  Generate a Patroni configuration file from the current instance.
    Ensure it is owned by the user `postgres`.

    ```shell
    patroni --generate-config --dsn 'host=localhost user=patroni_super dbname=postgres' /etc/patroni/patroni.yml
    chown postgres:postgres /etc/patroni/patroni.yml
    ```

#### Edit the generated configuration file

In the generated file:

1.  Set the name of the cluster under `scope` and a unique name for the node under `name`.

1.  Tell Patroni to use your etcd cluster as its DCS.
    Add the following to the top-level file.

    ```yaml
    etcd3:
      hosts:
        - 172.16.161.111:2379
        - 172.16.161.112:2379
        - 172.16.161.113:2379
    ```

1.  Add the details of the users you configured in step 1 under `postgresql.authentication`.
    For example:

    ```yaml
    authentication:
        replication:
            username: patroni_rep
            password: your-password-here
        superuser:
            username: patroni_super
            password: your-password-here
        rewind:
            username: patroni_rew
            password: your-password-here
    ```

1.  Change `postgresql.listen` to `'*:5432'`

1.  Change `postgresql.bin_dir` to `/usr/pgsql-17/bin`. Add this line if it is not present.

1.  Remove the entirety of the `postgresql.pg_hba` section, including the `pg_hba:` key itself.
    If you have created any rules that you wish to keep, you may wish to take a copy for the next step.

1.  Create a `pg_hba` section under `bootstrap.dcs.postgresql` and populate it with a common set of HBA rules for all nodes.
    The example below provides all the access required for PEM and Patroni in this example.

    ```yaml
    # Allow users of the web interface to connect to pem and postgres databases
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   127.0.0.1/32      scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   127.0.0.1/32      scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.211/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.211/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.212/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.212/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.213/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.213/32  scram-sha-256
   
    # Allow the PEM server agents to register and connect to send data to PEM server
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  127.0.0.1/32            cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.200/32        cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.201/32        cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.202/32        cert
   
    # Allow monitoring agents to connect to PEM
    # Specify the subnet you selected during PEM configuration
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   0.0.0.0/0               scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  0.0.0.0/0               cert

    # Allow our Patroni users to connect as required
    # Superuser only requires local connection
    - host    all             patroni_super     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    # Replication and rewind users require connection from other Patroni hosts
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256

    # This is the default config for this PG package
    - local   all             all                                     peer
    - host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - host    all             all             ::1/128                 scram-sha-256
    - local   replication     all                                     peer
    - host    replication     all             127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - host    replication     all             ::1/128                 scram-sha-256
    ```

1.  Stop and disable the Postgres service and start Patroni

    ```shell
    systemctl disable --now postgresql-17
    systemctl enable --now patroni
    ```

### Set up the standby nodes

On each standby node:

1.  Stop and disable the service for Postgres.

    ```shell
    systemctl disable --now postgresql-17
    ```

2.  Remove the data directory of the database server.

    ```shell
    rm -rf /var/lib/pgsql/17/data
    ```

3.  Create a Patroni configuration file in `/etc/patroni/patroni.yml`.
    Use the same content as the primary, with the following changes:
    - Remove the entire `bootstrap` section
    - Change the `name` to a unique name for each standby
    - Change the IP addresses under `restapi` and `postgresql.connect_address` to the address of the standby you are configuring.

4.  Start and enable Patroni.

    ```shell
    systemctl enable --now patroni
    ```

### Register agents and servers on the standbys

On each standby, perform the following steps.

1.  Register the PEM agent. Specify a multi-host string as the PEM server host and enable alert and notification handling.
    For consistency with the primary, we provide the loopback IP address 127.0.0.1 for the local host.
    For example, for Standby 1:

    ```shell
    export PEM_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    /usr/edb/pem/agent/bin/pemworker --register-agent \
                                     --pem-server '172.16.161.200,127.0.0.1,172.16.161.202' \
                                     --pem-user pemserver \
                                     --pem-port 5432 \
                                     -o alert_threads=1 \
                                     --enable-snmp true \
                                     --enable-webhook true \
                                     --enable-smtp true \
                                     --max-webhook-retries 3
    ```
    Enable and start the PEM agent service:

    ```shell
    systemctl enable --now pemagent
    ```
    See [Registering a PEM Agent](/pem/latest/registering_agent.mdx) for more information. 

1.  Register the Postgres instance with PEM. 
    The following command means the PEM web application will use the server's external IP when making a client connection to the database, 
    but the PEM Agent will use the loopback interface to connect locally.

    ```shell
    export PEM_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    export PEM_MONITORED_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    /usr/edb/pem/agent/bin/pemworker --register-server \
                                     --pem-user pemserver \
                                     --server-addr 172.16.161.201 \
                                     --server-port 5432 \
                                     --server-database postgres \
                                     --server-user pemserver \
                                     --asb-host-name localhost  
    ```
    
    See [Registering a Postgres Server](/pem/latest/registering_database_server/) for more information

### Register the standbys as PEM backends

Perform the following step on the primary.

Execute the following SQL on the `pem` database as a superuser, providing the correct server and port for each standby.

```sql
SELECT pem.register_pem_server(id) FROM pem.server WHERE server='172.16.161.201' and port=5432;
SELECT pem.register_pem_server(id) FROM pem.server WHERE server='172.16.161.202' and port=5432;
```

!!! Info
In older versions of PEM, the PEM server and its local agent had to have ID 1. 
This is no longer the case from PEM 10.1. Instead this SQL flags this server and agent as belonging to a PEM deployment, 
which in turn enables important system jobs such as purging expired data when this server is the primary.
!!!

## Deploy the PEM Web Application

Perform the following steps on all web application hosts.

1.  Install the PEM package and Postgres (for the client binaries):

    ```shell
    dnf install edb-pem postgresql17-server
    ```

1.  Open the following ports on the firewall of all servers:

    -   `8443` for PEM Server (HTTPS)

    For example:

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=8443/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

1.  Configure the PEM web application. Provide a multi-host string including the primary and all standbys as the PEM server address.
    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh -t 2 -ho '172.16.161.200,172.16.161.201,172.16.161.202'
    ```
    You will be prompted for various additional details. 
    For configuration options see, [Configuring the PEM server on Linux](/pem/latest/installing/configuring_the_pem_server_on_linux/).

1.  Run the `configure-selinux.sh` script to configure the SELinux policy for PEM.

    ```shell
    USE_NGINX=1 /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-selinux.sh
    ```

1.  You can now login to any of the web application instances using the `pemserver` superuser we created earlier.

1.  If you chose to synchronize PEM web application user preferences between instances,
    complete the setup now by [configuring each web application instance to use the backend for user settings](user_settings.md#configure-the-pem-web-applications).

1.  If you are using PEM 10.2 or 10.1, login to the PEM web application, right click the primary server in Object Explorer and navigate to `Properties > PEM Agent`.
    If the value of **Host** is a multi-host string, change it to `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`.

Commit message:

Add step to modify .install-config with Patroni to ensure upgrades are ok

product_docs/docs/pem/10/installing/ha/patroni_sm.mdx, after:

---
title: "HA PEM using the SM architecture with Patroni"
navTitle: "SM architecture with Patroni"
---

This page provides detailed instructions to install and configure a High Availability (HA) PEM deployment according to reference architecture SM.

This example uses Patroni for cluster management, PostgreSQL 17 as the PEM backend database, and multi-host strings as the mechanism for routing traffic to the primary.
Our operating system is RHEL 9 x86. 

Please see [High Availability Patterns for PEM Deployment](../../considerations/ha_pem.mdx) to understand other options.
    
The examples that follow use these IP addresses:

-   172.16.161.200 - PEM Backend Primary
-   172.16.161.201 - PEM Backend Standby 1
-   172.16.161.202 - PEM Backend Standby 2
-   172.16.161.211 - PEM Web Application 1
-   172.16.161.212 - PEM Web Application 2
-   172.16.161.213 - PEM Web Application 3
-   172.16.161.111 - etcd-node-1
-   172.16.161.112 - etcd-node-2
-   172.16.161.113 - etcd-node-3

## Setting up a Distributed Consensus Store with etcd

Patroni requires a Distributed Consensus Store (DCS). If you already have a DCS set up using etcd, you may skip this step and use your existing DCS.
Here we will create a minimal three-node DCS on three hosts, separate from the HA PEM application cluster.

On each node:

1.  Install etcd from the PGDG repository

    ```shell
    dnf install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-9-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm
    dnf --enablerepo=pgdg-rhel9-extras install -y etcd
    ```
2.  Replace the contents of `/etc/etcd/etcd.conf` with the following, substituting the appropriate values for `<node-ip>` and `node-name`.
    For example, `172.16.161.111` and `etcd-node-1`.

    ```ini
    #[Member]
    ETCD_LISTEN_PEER_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2380"
    ETCD_LISTEN_CLIENT_URLS="http://localhost:2379,http://<node-ip>:2379"
    ETCD_NAME="<node-name>"
    #[Clustering]
    ETCD_INITIAL_ADVERTISE_PEER_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2380"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER="etcd-node-1=http://172.16.161.111:2380,etcd-node-2=http://172.16.161.112:2380,etcd-node-3=http://172.16.161.113:2380"
    ETCD_ADVERTISE_CLIENT_URLS="http://<node-ip>:2379"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_TOKEN="etcd-cluster-1"
    ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE="new"
    ```

3.  Ensure that ports `2380` and `2379` are open on the firewall.

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2380/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2379/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

4. Ensure that the etcd service is restarted and enabled.

    ```shell
    systemctl enable etcd
    systemctl restart etcd
    ```

## Configuring EDB Repos

On all backend and web application nodes, configure EDB Repos.
Refer to [Getting started with repositories](/repos/getting_started/) for more detail.

```shell
curl -1sLf  'https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/<token>/<repo>/setup.rpm.sh' | bash
```

## Deploying the PEM backend

### Initial package installation and Postgres configuration

Perform the following steps on all backend nodes unless stated otherwise.

1.  Install the following packages:

    -   [PostgreSQL](/supported-open-source/postgresql/installing/) (backend database for PEM Server)
    -   [sslutils](../linux_x86_64/pem_rhel_9/#prerequisites) (see Prerequisites in PEM server installation)
    -   [PEM Server](/pem/latest/installing/)
    -   [Patroni](/supported-open-source/patroni/installing_patroni/)

    ```shell
    dnf -qy module disable postgresql
    dnf -y --allowerasing install postgresql17-server postgresql17-contrib edb-pem sslutils_17 edb-patroni
    ```

1.  Initialize a Postgres database and start the service.

    ```shell
    PGSETUP_INITDB_OPTIONS="-E UTF-8" /usr/pgsql-17/bin/postgresql-17-setup initdb
    systemctl start postgresql-17
    systemctl enable postgresql-17
    ```

1.  Open port `5432` on the firewall:

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=5432/tcp --permanent 
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

### Configure PEM on the primary backend node

Configure the PEM database installation **on the primary backend server only**:

Perform the following steps on the primary.

1.  Create a superuser that can login using a password. This is the user we will use to install PEM.
    It will also become the agent-server binding user for the agents running on PEM backend hosts.
    ```shell
    su - postgres -c "psql -c \"create role pemserver login superuser password 'your-password-here';\""
    ```

1.  Run the PEM configuration script, specifying option 3 (Database) and the IPs of all three backend hosts as `pemserver` user.
    Provide the loopback IP address rather than the external IP address for the primary.
    If you are using PEM 10.3 or later, also specify the agent-server-binding host as the loopback IP.

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh -t 3 \
                                             -ho '127.0.0.1,172.16.161.201,172.16.161.202' \
                                             -su pemserver \
                                             -asb-host-name '127.0.0.1'
    ```
    You will be prompted for various additional details. 
    For configuration options see, [Configuring the PEM server on Linux](/pem/latest/installing/configuring_the_pem_server_on_linux/).

1. Edit `/usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config`.
   Change the value of `DB_UNIT_FILE` to `patroni`.
   This ensures that future upgrades restart Patroni rather than attempting to restart the Postgres service, which is no longer used once Patroni is managing the cluster.

1. Optionally, to synchronize PEM web application user preferences between instances, [configure central storage of user preferences](user_settings.md).
   At this stage, you can only complete the backend configuration. 
   We will configure the web application later.


### Copy the configuration record to the standbys

Copy the file `/usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config` from the primary to all standbys.
This ensures you will be able to upgrade PEM from whichever node is the current primary in future.

### Set up Patroni on the primary node

#### Create Patroni users and generate a configuration file

1.  Create the Patroni superuser, replication and rewind roles. Execute the following SQL as a superuser.

    ```sql
    -- Patroni superuser
    CREATE USER patroni_super WITH SUPERUSER ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';

    -- Patroni replication user
    CREATE USER patroni_rep WITH REPLICATION ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';

    -- Patroni rewind user, if you intend to enable use_pg_rewind in your Patroni configuration
    CREATE USER patroni_rew WITH ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'your-password-here';
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_ls_dir(text, boolean, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_stat_file(text, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_read_binary_file(text) TO patroni_rew;
    GRANT EXECUTE ON function pg_catalog.pg_read_binary_file(text, bigint, bigint, boolean) TO patroni_rew;
    ```

    Give the passwords of your choice.

1.  Generate a Patroni configuration file from the current instance.
    Ensure it is owned by the user `postgres`.

    ```shell
    patroni --generate-config --dsn 'host=localhost user=patroni_super dbname=postgres' /etc/patroni/patroni.yml
    chown postgres:postgres /etc/patroni/patroni.yml
    ```

#### Edit the generated configuration file

In the generated file:

1.  Set the name of the cluster under `scope` and a unique name for the node under `name`.

1.  Tell Patroni to use your etcd cluster as its DCS.
    Add the following to the top-level file.

    ```yaml
    etcd3:
      hosts:
        - 172.16.161.111:2379
        - 172.16.161.112:2379
        - 172.16.161.113:2379
    ```

1.  Add the details of the users you configured in step 1 under `postgresql.authentication`.
    For example:

    ```yaml
    authentication:
        replication:
            username: patroni_rep
            password: your-password-here
        superuser:
            username: patroni_super
            password: your-password-here
        rewind:
            username: patroni_rew
            password: your-password-here
    ```

1.  Change `postgresql.listen` to `'*:5432'`

1.  Change `postgresql.bin_dir` to `/usr/pgsql-17/bin`. Add this line if it is not present.

1.  Remove the entirety of the `postgresql.pg_hba` section, including the `pg_hba:` key itself.
    If you have created any rules that you wish to keep, you may wish to take a copy for the next step.

1.  Create a `pg_hba` section under `bootstrap.dcs.postgresql` and populate it with a common set of HBA rules for all nodes.
    The example below provides all the access required for PEM and Patroni in this example.

    ```yaml
    # Allow users of the web interface to connect to pem and postgres databases
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   127.0.0.1/32      scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   127.0.0.1/32      scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.211/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.211/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.212/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.212/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   172.16.161.213/32  scram-sha-256
    - hostssl postgres +pem_user   172.16.161.213/32  scram-sha-256
   
    # Allow the PEM server agents to register and connect to send data to PEM server
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  127.0.0.1/32            cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.200/32        cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.201/32        cert
    - hostssl pem      +pem_admin  172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  172.16.161.202/32        cert
   
    # Allow monitoring agents to connect to PEM
    # Specify the subnet you selected during PEM configuration
    - hostssl pem      +pem_user   0.0.0.0/0               scram-sha-256
    - hostssl pem      +pem_agent  0.0.0.0/0               cert

    # Allow our Patroni users to connect as required
    # Superuser only requires local connection
    - host    all             patroni_super     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    # Replication and rewind users require connection from other Patroni hosts
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.200/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.201/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl replication     patroni_rep     172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256
    - hostssl all             patroni_rew     172.16.161.202/32        scram-sha-256

    # This is the default config for this PG package
    - local   all             all                                     peer
    - host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - host    all             all             ::1/128                 scram-sha-256
    - local   replication     all                                     peer
    - host    replication     all             127.0.0.1/32            scram-sha-256
    - host    replication     all             ::1/128                 scram-sha-256
    ```

1.  Stop and disable the Postgres service and start Patroni

    ```shell
    systemctl disable --now postgresql-17
    systemctl enable --now patroni
    ```

### Set up the standby nodes

On each standby node:

1.  Stop and disable the service for Postgres.

    ```shell
    systemctl disable --now postgresql-17
    ```

2.  Remove the data directory of the database server.

    ```shell
    rm -rf /var/lib/pgsql/17/data
    ```

3.  Create a Patroni configuration file in `/etc/patroni/patroni.yml`.
    Use the same content as the primary, with the following changes:
    - Remove the entire `bootstrap` section
    - Change the `name` to a unique name for each standby
    - Change the IP addresses under `restapi` and `postgresql.connect_address` to the address of the standby you are configuring.

4.  Start and enable Patroni.

    ```shell
    systemctl enable --now patroni
    ```

### Register agents and servers on the standbys

On each standby, perform the following steps.

1.  Register the PEM agent. Specify a multi-host string as the PEM server host and enable alert and notification handling.
    For consistency with the primary, we provide the loopback IP address 127.0.0.1 for the local host.
    For example, for Standby 1:

    ```shell
    export PEM_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    /usr/edb/pem/agent/bin/pemworker --register-agent \
                                     --pem-server '172.16.161.200,127.0.0.1,172.16.161.202' \
                                     --pem-user pemserver \
                                     --pem-port 5432 \
                                     -o alert_threads=1 \
                                     --enable-snmp true \
                                     --enable-webhook true \
                                     --enable-smtp true \
                                     --max-webhook-retries 3
    ```
    Enable and start the PEM agent service:

    ```shell
    systemctl enable --now pemagent
    ```
    See [Registering a PEM Agent](/pem/latest/registering_agent.mdx) for more information. 

1.  Register the Postgres instance with PEM. 
    The following command means the PEM web application will use the server's external IP when making a client connection to the database, 
    but the PEM Agent will use the loopback interface to connect locally.

    ```shell
    export PEM_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    export PEM_MONITORED_SERVER_PASSWORD=pemserver-password-here
    /usr/edb/pem/agent/bin/pemworker --register-server \
                                     --pem-user pemserver \
                                     --server-addr 172.16.161.201 \
                                     --server-port 5432 \
                                     --server-database postgres \
                                     --server-user pemserver \
                                     --asb-host-name localhost  
    ```
    
    See [Registering a Postgres Server](/pem/latest/registering_database_server/) for more information

### Register the standbys as PEM backends

Perform the following step on the primary.

Execute the following SQL on the `pem` database as a superuser, providing the correct server and port for each standby.

```sql
SELECT pem.register_pem_server(id) FROM pem.server WHERE server='172.16.161.201' and port=5432;
SELECT pem.register_pem_server(id) FROM pem.server WHERE server='172.16.161.202' and port=5432;
```

!!! Info
In older versions of PEM, the PEM server and its local agent had to have ID 1. 
This is no longer the case from PEM 10.1. Instead this SQL flags this server and agent as belonging to a PEM deployment, 
which in turn enables important system jobs such as purging expired data when this server is the primary.
!!!

## Deploy the PEM Web Application

Perform the following steps on all web application hosts.

1.  Install the PEM package and Postgres (for the client binaries):

    ```shell
    dnf install edb-pem postgresql17-server
    ```

1.  Open the following ports on the firewall of all servers:

    -   `8443` for PEM Server (HTTPS)

    For example:

    ```shell
    firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=8443/tcp --permanent
    firewall-cmd --reload      
    ```

1.  Configure the PEM web application. Provide a multi-host string including the primary and all standbys as the PEM server address.
    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh -t 2 -ho '172.16.161.200,172.16.161.201,172.16.161.202'
    ```
    You will be prompted for various additional details. 
    For configuration options see, [Configuring the PEM server on Linux](/pem/latest/installing/configuring_the_pem_server_on_linux/).

1.  Run the `configure-selinux.sh` script to configure the SELinux policy for PEM.

    ```shell
    USE_NGINX=1 /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-selinux.sh
    ```

1.  You can now login to any of the web application instances using the `pemserver` superuser we created earlier.

1.  If you chose to synchronize PEM web application user preferences between instances,
    complete the setup now by [configuring each web application instance to use the backend for user settings](user_settings.md#configure-the-pem-web-applications).

1.  If you are using PEM 10.2 or 10.1, login to the PEM web application, right click the primary server in Object Explorer and navigate to `Properties > PEM Agent`.
    If the value of **Host** is a multi-host string, change it to `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`.
