product_docs/docs/pem/10/upgrading/upgrading_pem_installation/high_availability_upgrade.mdx, before:

---
title: "Upgrading an HA PEM installation"
---

If you're using a [high availability PEM](../../considerations/ha_pem.mdx), you can perform a major or minor upgrade of the PEM installation.

The example commands provided assume a RHEL-based operating system.

!!!Important
This upgrade procedure is designed to minimize downtime to your PEM cluster.
However, it restarts your primary database instance once. To allow the primary to restart and avoid one of the replicas being promoted, ensure that automatic failover is disabled.
!!!

## Upgrading a deployment with colocated PEM web application and backend database

### Upgrade the primary

On the primary server:

1.  Update the PEM packages: 

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

### Upgrade the replicas

On each replica server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  If you're updating to PEM 10.x from PEM 9 or PEM 10.0, ensure that libpq5 is installed (this is done on the primary by `configure-pem-server.sh`):

    ```shell
    dnf install libpq5
    ```

1.  Copy the following configuration files from the primary.

    ```
    /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
    /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-ssl-pem.conf
    /usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config
    /usr/edb/pem/web/pem.wsgi
    /usr/edb/pem/web/config_setup.py
    ```

1.  If you're using NGINX as your web server, also copy the following files from the primary.

    ```
    /etc/edb-uwsgi/uwsgi.ini
    /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/edb-uwsgi.conf
    /etc/systemd/system/edb-uwsgi.service
    /etc/edb-uwsgi/apps-available/pem.ini
    /etc/nginx/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
    ```

    Then reload NGINX and uWSGI:

    ```shell
    systemctl daemon-reload
    systemctl enable edb-uwsgi
    systemctl start edb-uwsgi
    systemctl restart nginx
    ```

1.  If you're using Apache HTTPD as your web server, also copy the following files from the primary.

   ```
   /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
   /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-ssl-pem.conf
   ```

   Restart Apache HTTPD:

   ```shell
   systemctl restart httpd
   ```

The upgrade is complete. 

## Upgrading a deployment with separate PEM web application and backend database servers

### Upgrade the primary backend

On the primary backend database server:

1.  Update the PEM packages: 

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

### Upgrade the replica backends

On each replica database server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Copy the following configuration files from the primary.

    ```
    /usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config
    ```

### Upgrade the web applications

On each web application server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

The upgrade is complete.

Commit message:

Add step to modify .install-config with Patroni to ensure upgrades are ok

product_docs/docs/pem/10/upgrading/upgrading_pem_installation/high_availability_upgrade.mdx, after:

---
title: "Upgrading an HA PEM installation"
---

If you're using a [high availability PEM](../../considerations/ha_pem.mdx), you can perform a major or minor upgrade of the PEM installation.

The example commands provided assume a RHEL-based operating system.

!!!Important
This upgrade procedure is designed to minimize downtime to your PEM cluster.
However, it restarts your primary database instance once. 
To allow the primary to restart and avoid one of the replicas being promoted, ensure that automatic failover is disabled.

If you are using Patroni, ensure that the value of `DB_UNIT_FILE` in `/usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config` is set to `patroni`.
as detailed in the [installation instructions](../../installing/ha/patroni_sm.mdx#configure-pem-on-the-primary-backend-node).
!!!

## Upgrading a deployment with colocated PEM web application and backend database

### Upgrade the primary

On the primary server:

1.  Update the PEM packages: 

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

### Upgrade the replicas

On each replica server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  If you're updating to PEM 10.x from PEM 9 or PEM 10.0, ensure that libpq5 is installed (this is done on the primary by `configure-pem-server.sh`):

    ```shell
    dnf install libpq5
    ```

1.  Copy the following configuration files from the primary.

    ```
    /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
    /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-ssl-pem.conf
    /usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config
    /usr/edb/pem/web/pem.wsgi
    /usr/edb/pem/web/config_setup.py
    ```

1.  If you're using NGINX as your web server, also copy the following files from the primary.

    ```
    /etc/edb-uwsgi/uwsgi.ini
    /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/edb-uwsgi.conf
    /etc/systemd/system/edb-uwsgi.service
    /etc/edb-uwsgi/apps-available/pem.ini
    /etc/nginx/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
    ```

    Then reload NGINX and uWSGI:

    ```shell
    systemctl daemon-reload
    systemctl enable edb-uwsgi
    systemctl start edb-uwsgi
    systemctl restart nginx
    ```

1.  If you're using Apache HTTPD as your web server, also copy the following files from the primary.

   ```
   /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-pem.conf
   /etc/httpd/conf.d/edb-ssl-pem.conf
   ```

   Restart Apache HTTPD:

   ```shell
   systemctl restart httpd
   ```

The upgrade is complete. 

## Upgrading a deployment with separate PEM web application and backend database servers

### Upgrade the primary backend

On the primary backend database server:

1.  Update the PEM packages: 

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

### Upgrade the replica backends

On each replica database server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Copy the following configuration files from the primary.

    ```
    /usr/edb/pem/share/.install-config
    ```

### Upgrade the web applications

On each web application server:

1.  Update the PEM packages:

    ```shell
    dnf upgrade edb-pem --allowerasing
    ```

1.  Execute the upgrade script: 

    ```shell
    /usr/edb/pem/bin/configure-pem-server.sh
    ``` 

The upgrade is complete.
