product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/monitoring/mon_ext_dbs/mon_ext_csp/rds.mdx, before:

---
title: Monitoring AWS RDS deployments
navTitle: Monitoring RDS deployments
description: Learn how to monitor AWS RDS deployments with Hybrid Manager.
---

You can monitor your Amazon Web Service (AWS) relational database service (RDS) deployments with Hybrid Manager (HM).

## Prerequisites

You must have access to the Kubernetes environment where HM resides and also have sufficient administrator privileges to change the settings on the entire HM cluster.

This access requirement is different from other external database monitoring situations with HM, such as [self-managed](../mon_with_agent) deployments of Postgres, where fewer privileges are required.

You must also ensure that the user credentials stored in the Kubernetes secret (beacon-csp-credentials) have sufficient permissions for the AWS RDS environment being monitored. Without these permissions, the system can't retrieve all available metrics.

To do this, you need to obtain an AWS access key of an IAM user with the following minimal permissions:

```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceAndLogDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
                "rds:DescribeDBLogFiles"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:rds:*:*:db:*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowMaintenanceDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribePendingMaintenanceActions"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowGettingCloudWatchMetrics",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "cloudwatch:GetMetricData"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowRDSUsageDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribeAccountAttributes"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowQuotaDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "servicequotas:GetServiceQuota"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceTypeDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceFilterByTags",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "tag:GetResources"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Setting up HM agent to monitor AWS RDS deployments on HM

You can set up the agent to monitor all your AWS RDS deployments on HM.

!!! Note

    Once you register an RDS region, the system adds every database you have in that RDS region. This can result in several resources being added to your estate. They are all under one project, so you either have access as a user to all the RDS databases or you don't have access to any of them.

1.  Add your `beacon-csp-credentials` secret.

    Add your `beacon-csp-credentials` secret in your HM Kubernetes cluster's `upm-beacon` namespace:

    ```
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
        name: beacon-csp-credentials
        namespace: upm-beacon
    stringData:
        AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: replace_with_your_access_key_id
        AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: replace_with_your_secret_access_key
        AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: replace_with_your_session_token
        AWS_REGION: example-us-east-1
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_REGIONS: example-us-east-1
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_PROJECT_ID: your_project_id
        BEACON_AGENT_PROVIDERS: appliance,aws
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_MODE: constant
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_SERVICES: rds
    EOF
    ```
2.  Restart the agent and external metrics receiver:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-external-metrics-receiver
    ```

You now see your AWS RDS deployments on your **Estate** page.
After the databases start populating, you can see five metrics:

-   CPU

-   Network throughput

-   Connections

-   Disk IOPS

-   Disk throughput

## Disabling AWS RDS monitoring in HM

You can turn off monitoring of your AWS RDS deployments.

1.  Delete your `beacon-csp-credentials` secret:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    ```

2.  Restart the agent and external metrics receiver:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-external-metrics-receiver
    ```

You no longer see your AWS RDS deployments on your estate and are no longer monitoring them with HM.

Commit message:

Fixes for AWS SESSION_TOKEN and indentation fromr PR 7081

product_docs/docs/edb-postgres-ai/preview/hybrid-manager/using_hybrid_manager/monitoring/mon_ext_dbs/mon_ext_csp/rds.mdx, after:

---
title: Monitoring AWS RDS deployments
navTitle: Monitoring RDS deployments
description: Learn how to monitor AWS RDS deployments with Hybrid Manager.
---

You can monitor your Amazon Web Service (AWS) Relational Database Service (RDS) deployments with Hybrid Manager (HM).

## Prerequisites

You must have access to the Kubernetes environment where HM resides and also have sufficient administrator privileges to change the settings on the entire HM cluster.

This access requirement is different from other external database monitoring situations with HM, such as [self-managed](../mon_with_agent) deployments of Postgres, where fewer privileges are required.

You must also ensure that the user credentials stored in a Kubernetes secret, for example `example-beacon-csp-credentials`, have sufficient permissions for the AWS RDS environment being monitored. Without these permissions, the system can't retrieve all available metrics.

To do this, you need to obtain an AWS access key of an IAM user with the following minimal permissions:

```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceAndLogDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribeDBInstances",
                "rds:DescribeDBLogFiles"
            ],
            "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:rds:*:*:db:*"
            ]
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowMaintenanceDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribePendingMaintenanceActions"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowGettingCloudWatchMetrics",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "cloudwatch:GetMetricData"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowRDSUsageDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "rds:DescribeAccountAttributes"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowQuotaDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "servicequotas:GetServiceQuota"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceTypeDescriptions",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "ec2:DescribeInstanceTypes"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "AllowInstanceFilterByTags",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": [
                "tag:GetResources"
            ],
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Setting up HM agent to monitor AWS RDS deployments on HM

You can set up the agent to monitor all your AWS RDS deployments on HM.

!!! Note

    Once you register an RDS region, the system adds every database you have in that RDS region. This can result in several resources being added to your estate. They are all under one project, so you either have access as a user to all the RDS databases or you don't have access to any of them.

1.  Add your `example-beacon-csp-credentials` secret.

    Add your `example-beacon-csp-credentials` secret in your HM Kubernetes cluster's `upm-beacon` namespace.

    Example `yaml` sample:

    ```
    kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
        name: example-beacon-csp-credentials
        namespace: upm-beacon
    stringData:
        AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: <your_access_key_id>
        AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: <your_secret_access_key>
        AWS_SESSION_TOKEN: <your_session_token>
        AWS_REGION: example-us-east-1
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_REGIONS: example-us-east-1
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_PROJECT_ID: <your_project_id>
        BEACON_AGENT_PROVIDERS: appliance,aws
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_MODE: constant
        BEACON_PROVIDER_AWS_CONSTANT_SERVICES: rds
    EOF
    ```

2.  Restart the agent and external metrics receiver:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-external-metrics-receiver
    ```

You now see your AWS RDS deployments on your **Estate** page.
After the databases start populating, you can see five metrics:

-   CPU

-   Network throughput

-   Connections

-   Disk IOPS

-   Disk throughput

## Disabling AWS RDS monitoring in HM

You can turn off monitoring of your AWS RDS deployments.

1.  Delete your `beacon-csp-credentials` secret:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    ```

2.  Restart the agent and external metrics receiver:

    ```
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-agent-k8s
    kubectl -n upm-beacon rollout restart deployment upm-beacon-external-metrics-receiver
    ```

You no longer see your AWS RDS deployments on your estate and are no longer monitoring them with HM.
