product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/installing/03-installing-database-and-pgd.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing the database and pgd
navTitle: Installing
description: Installing the database and pgd software on each host.
deepToC: true
---

On each host which you want to use as a PGD data node, you need to install the database and the PGD software.

After you have [configured the EDB repository](02-configure-repositories), you can install the database and PGD software using your package manager.

## Install the database and PGD software

### Set the Postgres version

Set an environment variable to specify the version of Postgres you want to install. This is typically `17` for Postgres 17.

```bash
export PG_VERSION=17
```

### Set the package names

Set an environment variable to specify the package names for the database and PGD software. The package names will vary depending on the database you are using and the platform you are on.

<TabContainer>

<Tab title="EDB Postgres Advanced Server" active>
<br/><br/><br/>

#### EDB Postgres Advanced Server

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION-server edb-pgd6-<edition>-epas$PG_VERSION"
```

Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION-server edb-pgd6-<edition>-epas$PG_VERSION"
```

Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
</TabContainer>

</Tab>

<Tab title="EDB Postgres Extended">
<br/><br/><br/>

#### EDB Postgres Extended

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-postgresextended-$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-<edition>-pgextended$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-postgresextended$PG_VERSION-server edb-postgresextended$PG_VERSION-contrib edb-pgd6-<edition>-pgextended$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
</TabContainer>
</Tab>

<Tab title="Community PostgreSQL">
<br/><br/><br/>

#### Community PostgreSQL

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="postgresql-$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-<edition>-pg$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

 ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="postgresql$PG_VERSION-server postgresql$PG_VERSION-contrib edb-pgd6-<edition>-pg$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

<br/><br/><br/>

### Run the installation command
Run the installation command appropriate for your platform.

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
sudo apt install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
sudo dnf install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

This command will install the specified packages and any dependencies they require. Once the installation is complete, you will have the database and PGD software installed on your system.


## Worked example

In this example, we will install EDB Postgres Extended Server 17 with PGD Expanded on a CentOS/RHEL system  using the repository configuration we set up in the [previous step's worked example](02-configure-repositories#worked-example).

```bash
export PG_VERSION=17
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-expanded-epas$PG_VERSION"
sudo dnf install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```

Commit message:

Remove Essential-how-to and Expanded-how-to sections

product_docs/docs/pgd/6.2/installing/03-installing-database-and-pgd.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing the database and pgd
navTitle: Installing
description: Installing the database and pgd software on each host.
deepToC: true
redirects:
  - /pgd/latest/essential-how-to/install/03-installing-database-and-pgd/
  - /pgd/latest/expanded-how-to/install/03-installing-database-and-pgd/
---

On each host which you want to use as a PGD data node, you need to install the database and the PGD software.

After you have [configured the EDB repository](02-configure-repositories), you can install the database and PGD software using your package manager.

## Install the database and PGD software

### Set the Postgres version

Set an environment variable to specify the version of Postgres you want to install. This is typically `17` for Postgres 17.

```bash
export PG_VERSION=17
```

### Set the package names

Set an environment variable to specify the package names for the database and PGD software. The package names will vary depending on the database you are using and the platform you are on.

<TabContainer>

<Tab title="EDB Postgres Advanced Server" active>
<br/><br/><br/>

#### EDB Postgres Advanced Server

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION-server edb-pgd6-<edition>-epas$PG_VERSION"
```

Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION-server edb-pgd6-<edition>-epas$PG_VERSION"
```

Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
</TabContainer>

</Tab>

<Tab title="EDB Postgres Extended">
<br/><br/><br/>

#### EDB Postgres Extended

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-postgresextended-$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-<edition>-pgextended$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-postgresextended$PG_VERSION-server edb-postgresextended$PG_VERSION-contrib edb-pgd6-<edition>-pgextended$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
</TabContainer>
</Tab>

<Tab title="Community PostgreSQL">
<br/><br/><br/>

#### Community PostgreSQL

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

  ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="postgresql-$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-<edition>-pg$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>
<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

 ```bash
  export EDB_PACKAGES="postgresql$PG_VERSION-server postgresql$PG_VERSION-contrib edb-pgd6-<edition>-pg$PG_VERSION"
  ```

  Where `<edition>` is the PGD edition you want to install: `essential` or `expanded`.

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

<br/><br/><br/>

### Run the installation command
Run the installation command appropriate for your platform.

<TabContainer syncKey="platform">

<Tab title="Debian/Ubuntu" active>

```shell
sudo apt install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```

</Tab>

<Tab title="CentOS/RHEL">

```shell
sudo dnf install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```

</Tab>

</TabContainer>

This command will install the specified packages and any dependencies they require. Once the installation is complete, you will have the database and PGD software installed on your system.


## Worked example

In this example, we will install EDB Postgres Extended Server 17 with PGD Expanded on a CentOS/RHEL system  using the repository configuration we set up in the [previous step's worked example](02-configure-repositories#worked-example).

```bash
export PG_VERSION=17
export EDB_PACKAGES="edb-as$PG_VERSION edb-pgd6-expanded-epas$PG_VERSION"
sudo dnf install -y $EDB_PACKAGES
```
